Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Return Scenario Planning You are here Home Life at Temple Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy Return Scenario Planning Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Temple continues to do all we can to ensure the welfare of students, faculty and staff, as well as our greater community. Learn more about how we are planning for the spring 2022 semester and find answers to frequently asked questions about the pandemic and Temple University’s response. Contents Return TeamSpring 2022 UpdateVaccination RequirementsReturn Scenarios and PhasesFAQ: Return Planning Return Team Temple’s Return Team, which comprises representatives from every area of our campus, meets regularly to build out scenarios and plan for the academic year. Each member of this team is committed to maximizing safety while ensuring that quality teaching, education and research can continue to take place. Results from the university’s staff survey, in addition to government mandates and public health guidelines, are used in the university’s planning. Temple Community Health Advisory Group Laura Siminoff, dean, College of Public Health Resa Jones, chair, Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, College of Public Health Tony Reed, executive vice president and chief medical officer, Temple University Health System Heather Clauss, professor, Clinical Medicine, Lewis Katz School of Medicine Stephanie Ives, associate vice president and dean of students Sharon Boyle, associate vice president, Human Resources George Kenney, senior advisor for Government Affairs Cameron J. Etezady, deputy university counsel Spring 2022 Update In response to the omicron variant of the COVID-19 virus, the university will return to online learning for the start of the spring 2022 semester. All classes—except essential in-person classes—will be taught virtually through Jan. 21, 2022. Residential halls will be open for students to move-in starting Saturday, Jan 22, 2022. All residential students must get a COVID-19 test within 24-hours of their arrival. Faculty and staff should prepare to work remotely from Jan. 3 through Jan. 24, 2022. However, essential workers should return to campus as scheduled during this time. Keeping in line with the city of Philadelphia’s Department of Public Health mandate, the university requires every member of our community to be fully vaccinated. We strongly encourage those who are eligible to also receive a booster shot and upload that information to the health portal at temple.edu/vaxupload. Vaccine clinics will resume on Main Campus on Monday, Jan. 10 and will also offer COVID-19 booster shoots. Learn more about getting vaccinated on campus. Vaccination Requirements To be in compliance with the city of Philadelphia’s vaccination mandate, all members of our community must have received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine by Friday, Oct. 15, 2021 or have an approved medical or religious exemption. For vaccinations that require two doses ((Pfizer or Moderna), you must have received your second dose by Nov. 15, 2021. We encourage the Temple community to continue practicing healthy behaviors so that we can keep our COVID-19 numbers at bay. Testing Since the 2021 summer sessions, students have been assigned to one of four groups for COVID-19 testing based on the amount of time they are expected to be on or near campus and their vaccination status. Learn more about the university’s testing program. Fully vaccinated members of our community are not required to participate in the testing program. If you are fully vaccinated, please upload a record of your vaccine card to the patient health portal. Containment Contact tracing is an essential tool in maintaining control of the spread of COVID-19. We have expanded the capacity of our Contact Tracing Unit, which identifies and contacts those who have been exposed to persons who have tested positive for COVID-19. Anyone who tests positive will be required to isolate and their close contacts should get a COVID-19 test within two to five days of exposure and wear a mask for 14 days. If symptoms develop, they should self-isolate and contact their healthcare provider immediately. Isolation and quarantine spaces are available on campus for those living in residence halls or in off-campus housing. Read more about contact tracing at the university. Cleaning Students who take in-person classes will be taught in de-densified classrooms, labs and studio settings that have been properly and regularly sanitized. Healthy Behaviors As a community, we should all continue to practice the four public health pillars—properly wearing a facial covering, frequently washing our hands, maintaining six feet of physical distance and monitoring our health—to ensure that we all remain as healthy as possible. Learn more about the university’s public health pillars. Open Campus Services On-campus resources, including residence halls, Charles Library, the TECH Center, Campus Recreation and other services will be available for in-person use. The Career Center, Wellness Resource Center and Tuttleman Counseling Services are available online. Find out more about what on-campus resources and services are available. Return Scenarios and Phases When the coronavirus pandemic emerged in 2020, Temple employed a phased return approach when planning for the for the 2020–2021 academic year. Each phase allowed additional people on campus in a strictly regulated fashion. To ensure a healthy environment for our students, faculty and staff, measures aimed at protecting public health—centered around the four public health pillars—are in place. When employed, a phased approach allows us to assess our protocols and ensure that they produce the best possible results through each of the phases of reopening. All planning efforts and continued support of state and local authorities allow for a highly fluid situation. The university was ready to pivot to primarily online instruction at any point. Scenarios considered explored a range of possibilities, from a slightly modified traditional semester to a blend of smaller classes; continued online teaching; and gatherings that are limited in size, or anticipate greater use of online options. The four scenarios for the 2020–2021 academic year were reasonably normal, restricted semester, essentials only and comprehensive remote. All plans have included contingencies for changing conditions over time. The university consistently monitors and responds to new information about COVID-19 and its impacts, and we are prepared to deviate from outlined plans in order to take swift actions to keep our community safe. The health and safety of our students, faculty and staff is always our top priority. FAQ: Return Planning What plans were in place for the fall 2021 semester? The university opened the campus to fully vaccinated students, faculty and staff in the fall of 2021 for a semester of in-person classes. To be in compliance with the city of Philadelphia’s Oct. 6, 2021, announcement regarding its vaccination mandate, all members of our community were required to have received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine by mid-October or have an approved medical or religious exemption. Read more about fall 2021 semester plans. Who is involved in the Return Team? An Academic Team, which evaluates the impacts of various return scenarios on academic functions such as teaching and learning, clinical, student placements, enrollment, and international. An Operations Team, which evaluates the impacts of various return scenarios on university operations such as housing, facilities, business services and emergency management. A Student Life Team, which evaluates the impacts of various return scenarios on student life functions including university housing, student engagement, student services, student programs and nonacademic issues. A Business Team, which evaluates the impacts of various return scenarios on university business functions including human resources, information technology, facilities and purchasing. A Research Team, which evaluates the impacts of various return scenarios on the university’s research operations. Did Temple employ a phased approach to the return to campus in the way Pennsylvania has delineated a phased reopening plan? Yes. Similar to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Temple employed a phased approach for reopening for the fall semester, with each phase allowing for additional people on campus in a strictly regulated fashion. As part of this effort, new protocols for keeping buildings clean and employees safe were put into place. During the earlier phases of the reopening, in addition to the essential medical and safety staff who have been on campus throughout this period, we slowly added small teams of construction and facilities workers who made changes to our buildings to ensure a healthy environment. For instance, new plexiglass shields were installed in reception areas to ensure safe separation in places where distancing might be difficult. We also removed some seats in public spaces to de-densify areas as much as possible. The second phase, which started in late June, saw an increase in research activities at select locations on Temple’s campuses. Many of Temple’s groundbreaking researchers, including those at the Lewis Katz School of Medicine, focused on COVID-19. The second phase also saw increased activity in clinics at locations like the Kornberg School of Dentistry and our School of Podiatric Medicine. These clinics continue to address the needs of our neighbors, who rely on Temple for vital treatment. The third phase was introduced on June 23, 2020, the beginning of the Summer II session. Almost all classes for Summer II were moved online. However, a small number of classes resumed on campus, primarily those taught through the College of Public Health. These classes require in-person instruction, and the students enrolled in them had been apprised of the university’s plan. During this phase, a number of protocols and procedures were pilot tested in preparation for larger numbers of students in the fall. During phase four, slated to begin Aug. 1, 2020, growing numbers of people on campus were anticipated as students moved back into the neighborhood. The fifth and final phase began as students moved into university residence halls in mid-August on dates as they were assigned, followed by fall semester classes beginning on Aug. 24, 2020. Given reduced infection rates and authorization from state and local authorities, a blend of in-person and online instruction took place at the start of the fall semester. What other bodies influenced the university’s return planning? Temple followed and continues to follow the guidelines and restrictions put in place through local, state and federal governments. We also continue to follow and comply with guidance issued by public health organizations, such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. What return scenarios were considered at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic? The scenarios under consideration envisioned a broad range of possibilities, from a slightly modified traditional semester to a blend of smaller classes; continued online teaching; and gatherings that are limited in size, or anticipate greater use of online options. Details of the four scenarios follow. Reasonably normal, which allows for in-person learning and on-campus residence, but requires students, faculty and staff to wear face coverings. Mass gatherings will not be allowed and large lecture-style classes will be reduced. Recreational facilities will be available with extra cleaning. NCAA activities will resume. Restricted semester, which allows for some in-person learning but limits gatherings to less than 25–50 people. Restrictions will be placed on housing and sports and recreation. Campus dining will provide take-out meals only. NCAA activities will resume with restrictions. Essentials only, which allows for heavily restricted in-person instruction and housing. Gatherings will be limited to fewer than 25 people. No sports and recreation will be allowed. Campus dining will provide take-out meals only. NCAA activities will remain suspended. Comprehensive remote, which minimizes in-person learning by restricting gatherings to 10 or fewer people. Essential employees will return or remain on campus. Research operations will be prioritized. Student, faculty and staff support measures will be enhanced for remote learning and working environments. Back to Main Coronavirus Page Go back to Life at TempleMore in Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.