Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Services / Event Planning Event Planning Your online resource for planning an event or reserving a space on campus. The Penn Museum gardens, galleries, and Tiffany-appointed interior create an oasis of elegance in a bustling urban surround. Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts The Center’s variety of venues includes three state-of-the-art theaters, lobbies, reception areas, meeting rooms, and a lovely outdoor plaza. A host of professional services are also available, from Box Office and Front of House staffing to technical coordinators and stagehands. Penn Hospitality Services Penn’s all-in-one resource for on-campus meeting coordination, events planning and concierge. Kelly Writers House Reserve a space in this charming Gothic cottage for writing-related programs. Morris Arboretum Host an event in the Arboretum’s colorfully landscaped gardens or Widener Visitors Center, a newly renovated carriage house. The Perelman School of Medicine Reserve state-of-the-art event venues such as auditoriums, reception areas, classrooms, and meeting spaces, along with audio/visual services. Perry World House Reserve a space at the center of Penn’s campus. Perry World House is a seamless combination of new construction and historic renovation with expansive open spaces, intimate gathering areas, state-of-the-art technology, natural light and modern art. University Club Penn faculty, staff, and alumni are welcome to reserve the University Club’s private dining rooms. Penn Museum Exquisite galleries, gardens, and courtyards provide memorable venues for gatherings of any size. VPUL Space Reservation Reserve one of the Office of Vice Provost for University Life locations, including Perelman Quadrangle, campus green spaces, and student performing arts facilities. Offices & Services A complete directory of the administrative offices and services that keep the Penn community moving. Human Resources & Employment Questions about benefits, career opportunities, professional development, and more, all answered here. Human Resources Student Services Information about all aspects of student life, from housing, health, and wellness to student organizations and employment. Student Services Residential Services A comprehensive overview of the residential resources and services Penn provides. Residential Services Retail Penn offers a host of convenient retail options on and around campus and online. Look for special discounts for Penn students, faculty, and staff. Retail Transportation & Parking There are numerous convenient and sustainable ways to travel to, from, and around the Penn campus. Transportation & Parking Event Planning Your online resource for planning an event or reserving a space on campus Event Planning Offices & Services Landing Page A complete directory of the administrative offices and services that keep the Penn community moving. Services Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top