Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Academic Appeals Academic Appeals Information for Students Checklist for students Preparing their Appeal Below is the checklist that every student must complete when filing an academic appeal. Appeals must be submitted prior to specific deadlines. In order to initiate an academic appeal, the student must contact the faculty member of the course under appeal within 60 days from the first day of the next regular semester (fall or spring). A completed written appeal, including all elements of the checklist below, must be received by the Academic Appeals Board no later than 90 days from the first day of the next regular semester following the course under appeal. Summer or winter session course appeals must be initiated in the following fall or spring semester, respectively. The Academic Appeals Board can only consider student appeals based on: 1) accusations of academic dishonesty (cheating) on the part of the student; or 2) allegations that a grade was assigned in a subjective or prejudicial (arbitrary and capricious) manner. The Academic Appeals Board DOES NOT REGRADE OR RE-EVALUATE student work. All communications must be professional and maintain a tone of civility. A copy of the appeal will be shared with the faculty member to allow them to prepare a response. Appeals are considered on an individual basis. Your academic appeal request must include the following: Full name, address, CWID #, contact phone number, primary e-mail address, class level, and major; Name of the course and course #, semester taken, and instructor's name; A letter outlining the allegation (accusation of academic dishonesty or allegation of arbitrary and/or capricious behavior). Your letter must state what resolution you are seeking (for example, if you received a C in the class and you feel it should have been a B), and a justification for that request; The letter should include the names and dates (as close as possible) of all the people with whom you have consulted (i.e., course instructor/professor, department chair, associate dean, etc.) and the outcome of those interactions; Your academic appeal request can only be based on accusations of academic dishonesty or plagiarism, or allegations of arbitrary/capricious behavior by a faculty member. You must provide detailed and specific information to support a claim related to arbitrary/capricious behavior. This may include, but not limited to, e-mails, past exams, course gradebook records, and/or classwork. You must provide a detailed explanation (including documentation if appropriate) to counter an accusation of academic dishonesty or plagiarism. Attach the course syllabus and relevant e-mails to and from pertinent parties. E-mail your letter and all supporting documentation to academicappeals@fullerton.edu. Additional Resources UPS 300.030 Academic Appeals UPS 300.031 Academic Appeals Board Student Conduct Website Academic Appeals Timeline Details Academic Appeals Board Dr. Merri Lynn Casem, Chair Dr. Penny Weismuller Dr. Daniel Rueckert 2 Student Representatives Coordinator of Academic Appeals This site is maintained by Division of Student Affairs. Last Published 1/27/21 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact academicappeals@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.3.9 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.