Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Computer Science Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Computer Science Major Apply Visit Request More Info Computer Science Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Computer Science Major Students interested in the general study of computer science can earn a Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science or Bachelor of Science in Computer Science at Temple University’s College of Science and Technology. Graduates of the Computer Science BA or BS are hired as computing consultants, programmers, software developers, system analysts, and system or network administrators. Some graduates start their own technology companies. Computer science is the study of automating processes that can store, communicate and process information. Computer scientists specialize in theories such as computation and computational system design. Computer Science majors gain a broad education in the conceptual foundations of computer science, including algorithms, artificial intelligence, computer architecture, data structures, image processing, networks, operating systems and software engineering. Students learn the underlying theory, methodologies and techniques used in the development of computer systems. After completing this program, students should have the ability to apply knowledge of computer hardware and system software to design reliable and efficient software systems, communicate with and lead teams, design, write and test efficient software algorithms, and learn, evaluate and apply new problem-solving techniques and tools. Choosing between a BA and a BS The Computer Science BS requires more CIS coursework than the BA, including four to five Computer Science upper-level electives and a course in computer science probability. These additional courses make BS students more employable after graduation. The BA (with fewer required credits) is a good choice for students who want broaden their education and take additional coursework outside of the major. BA in Computer Science 9 required Computer and Information Science (CIS) courses See a full list of requirements for the BA in Computer Science. BS in Computer Science 10 required CIS courses 4 to 5 upper-level Computer Science elective courses See a full list of requirements for the BS in Computer Science. Related Graduate Degrees Computational Data Science MS Computer and Information Science PhD Computer Science MS High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM Information Science and Technology MS Mathematics MS Mathematics PhD Scientific Writing PSM Related Graduate Certificates Scientific Writing +1 Bachelor-Master Programs The College of Science and Technology offers +1 Accelerated Bachelor-Master Programs. Students can earn a BA or BS and, at the end of the fifth year, an MA or MS. Coursework is completed over five years instead of taking the usual six-year course of study. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s +1 Bachelor-Master programs. 3+4 Accelerated Programs The College of Science and Technology offers 3+4 Accelerated Degree Programs in a seven-year course of study, instead of the usual eight years. Qualifying undergraduate students can obtain the Computer Science Major from CST and a Doctor of Medicine in Dentistry from the Kornberg School of Dentistry, Doctor of Podiatric Medicine from the School of Podiatric Medicine, Doctor of Medicine from the Lewis Katz School of Medicine, or Doctor of Pharmacy Medicine from the School of Pharmacy. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s 3+4 Accelerated Degree Programs. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,568.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,792.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development The Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development in the College of Science and Technology helps you navigate New Student Orientation, advises on specific degree programs and courses, provides post-graduation guidance, and offers peer support. You can also be matched with a qualified student ambassador/ombudsperson who will further assist with degree and academic questions or concerns. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development's academic advisors and student ambassadors/ombudspersons. Program Contact Faculty advisors can help you shape your academic path and navigate requirements for the Computer Science Major. Gene Kwatny is a professor, vice chair and the director of Computer and Information Sciences undergraduate programs. Phone: 215-204-8450 Email: gene.kwatny@temple.edu Sally Kyvernitis is the faculty advisor for Computer Science. Phone: 215-204-2030 Email: sallyk@temple.edu Jamie Payton is an associate professor and the chair of the Computer and Information Sciences Department. Phone: 215-204-1237 Email: payton@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations in the College of Science and Technology provide opportunities to meet with peers, network with professionals or scientists in your field of study and learn about internship opportunities. The College of Science and Technology offers 15 major clubs and 12 prehealth clubs for undergraduate students. Enhance your academic study and social life by participating in a club related to your major or interests. Computer and Information Science students may be interested in the following clubs and organizations. The Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM fields. The Association for Computing Machinery promotes the academic, professional and social development of students interested in computer technology. The Association for Computing Machinery for Women provides support and advocacy for women pursuing careers in technology. Leadership, Education and Development in Science empowers Philadelphia middle school students to take an interest in STEM through mentor-led science experiments. TU Dev is a community of students with a mutual interest in software design that fosters discussions on emerging trends and technologies in the field. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Abroad Opportunities Deepen your understanding of your math, natural science or computer science coursework by experiencing firsthand how such disciplines are studied overseas. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Learn more about your options for studying away. College of Science and Technology undergraduate students can also take part in international research. These opportunities include the following external scholarship programs. The Benjamin Gilman International Scholarship provides funding for underrepresented students to study in nontraditional destinations such as Australia and Eastern Europe. The Boren Scholarship Summer STEM Initiative offers undergraduate STEM majors opportunities to participate in a language-intensive program. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research and Temple offer opportunities for students in biology, chemistry and physics programs to work in research groups in Pune, India, over the summer. The Siena Biomedical Research Program provides the opportunity for students to spend their summer working full time in a biotechnology and pathology lab based in Tuscany, Italy. The Sicily Applied Biotechnology Program allows students to learn the biological basis behind the technology used for art conservation and then apply that knowledge in the laboratory and in the field. Learn more about study abroad programs for College of Science and Technology students. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-CSCI-BS Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Computer Science Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info