Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni TigerOne About the TigerOne ID Forward Arrow About the TigerOne ID Students Employees Affiliates, Emeritus, and Retirees TigerStripe Terms and Conditions Back Arrow Back TigerOne Mobile ID for Apple TigerOne Mobile ID for Android Building Access Forward Arrow Building Access Troubleshoot Access Issues BSC Support Forward Arrow BSC Support Door and Camera Support Door Schedules After Hours Support Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Manage Accounts Forward Arrow Manage Accounts Mark ID as Lost Online Photo Submission Deposits, Balances, and Transactions Back Arrow Back Contact TigerOne Forward Arrow Contact TigerOne Off-Campus TigerOne Liaisons TigerStripe Merchants Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close TigerOne About the TigerOne ID show submenu for About the TigerOne ID Students Employees Affiliates, Emeritus, and Retirees TigerStripe Terms and Conditions TigerOne Mobile ID for Apple TigerOne Mobile ID for Android Building Access show submenu for Building Access Troubleshoot Access Issues BSC Support show submenu for BSC Support Door and Camera Support Door Schedules After Hours Support Manage Accounts show submenu for Manage Accounts Mark ID as Lost Online Photo Submission Deposits, Balances, and Transactions Contact TigerOne show submenu for Contact TigerOne Off-Campus TigerOne Liaisons TigerStripe Merchants Clemson Home Campus Life TigerOne About the TigerOne ID Current: Terms and Conditions Terms and Conditions The TigerOne card is the official Clemson University ID card. This includes the physical TigerOne card as well as the TigerOne Mobile ID; hereinafter referred to as the “Card.” The individual identified on the Card is the “Cardholder.” A Cardholder may additionally choose to open an optional TigerStripe declining balance account; hereinafter referred to as the “Account.” The Card and Account are administered by TigerOne Card Services, hereinafter referred to as “TigerOne,” a unit within the Division of Finance and Operations at Clemson University. The mechanism for accessing the Account shall be the Card. By using the Card, the Cardholder agrees to be bound by all of the terms and conditions outlined below: General Terms The Card is the official Clemson University ID card and the property of Clemson University. The Card is non-transferable and may not be altered in any way. The Card should be in the Cardholder’s possession at all times and presented upon request to any University Official. The Card may be confiscated from a cardholder as a result of inappropriate or illegal use. The Card provides access to facilities, programs and services offered at Clemson University. The Card is linked with multiple systems including the transaction system, the access control system and video surveillance system. ID Photo Photos are taken in the TigerOne Card office located in 111 Hendrix Student Center or can be submitted on the web at https://t1online.clemson.edu. Your photo is maintained by the University and is considered “directory information” and not confidential under FERPA. Your photo is considered part of your official record at the University and may be shared with other Clemson University personnel and systems for official University business. Your photo may be subject to disclosure to third parties under applicable state and/or federal laws. TigerOne reserves the right to refuse to accept a photo that does not meet Photo Submission Guidelines. TigerStripe Account The Account is an optional declining balance account and is a record of pre-deposited funds accessed by the Cardholder for the purchase of products and services. There is no daily limit on the number of purchases that may be made and debited; however, no debits or charges shall exceed the amount of deposited funds. No interest shall be paid on any balance in the Account. The Cardholder must present his/her Card at the time of use in order to purchase products and/or services with funds in the Account. The Cardholder understands and agrees that the Account shall not be used as a credit card, to obtain cash advances, or to purchase any gift cards, and is subject to other restrictions. The Cardholder understands and agrees that the Account is non-transferable. The Account will be opened at the time of an initial deposit. Deposits may be made as follows: Students can elect to have funds deposited in their Account via the Optional Fees in iROAR. Deposits are processed at the beginning of each semester after all fees have been paid. Employees can elect to have funds deposited into their Account via Payroll Deduction. On the web at https://t1online.clemson.edu. Guest deposits cannot be made as an initial deposit. In person at the TigerOne office with check, money order, traveler's check, MasterCard, Visa, Discover, or American Express. At Value Port Stations located at multiple locations across campus with cash. Value Port deposits cannot be made as an initial deposit. By mail with a check or money order only. The Account cannot be used to pay tuition and fees. In addition to on campus locations, the Account can only be used at participating off-campus merchants. Purchases of alcohol, tobacco and gift cards are prohibited and other limitations may apply. Lost, Stolen, Damaged and Updated Cards A lost or stolen Card must be reported immediately as follows: On the web at https://t1online.clemson.edu. Email at tigeronecard@clemson.edu. In person at the TigerOne office. By telephone at 864-656-0763. A charge will be imposed for lost, stolen, damaged and updated replacement cards. See the Fees section for associated charges. Damaged cards will be any card that has undergone any of the following conditions: Cards with holes punched into them. Cards that have been exposed to extreme elements such as heat or moisture. Cards that have been excessively scratched. Cards that have had tape, stickers or other items affixed to them. No charge will be imposed for a Card that is not functioning properly due to normal wear and tear or deemed defective. Once a new Card is made, previous Cards cannot be re-activated nor will a fee be refunded. Cardholder Liability The Cardholder is responsible for all charges made with the card; even if the card or account number is lost or stolen. Therefore, it is important to notify TigerOne immediately upon discovering loss or theft to limit potential loss of funds. Clemson University is not responsible for any loss or expense caused by loss, theft or misuse of the Card or the Account. Misuse of the Card or Account will be reported to the Office of Community and Ethical Standards and is subject to disciplinary action by the University. Refunds, Returns and Error Resolution Merchandise may be accepted for return in accordance with the refund policy in effect at the place of purchase of the product(s) and service(s). Any refund(s) accepted by the place of purchase shall be credited to the Cardholder’s Account. No cash refunds will be made for any purchase made with the Card. Cardholders are responsible for verifying the accuracy of charges by merchants and receipts of charges. If there is an error on a receipt, the Cardholder should contact the place of purchase where the incident occurred. Clemson University does not handle merchant refunds. If the Cardholder would like more information about a specific transaction found on the TigerStripe Account activity statement, the Cardholder may contact TigerOne. When making a request for an adjustment to an Account, the Cardholder must provide the following information: The Cardholder's name and the identification number of front of Card; A description of the transaction in question and explanation of discrepancy; and The dollar amount of the transaction in question. TigerOne will investigate the Cardholder’s request and provide a written decision to the cardholder within ten (10) business days. If an error is found, TigerOne will make the necessary adjustments to the Cardholder’s Account. If no error is found, TigerOne will provide the Cardholder with a written explanation. The Cardholder may request copies of the document(s) used to conduct the investigation. Receipts and Statements If the point-of-sale terminal is equipped to provide a receipt, the Cardholder will receive a receipt in accordance with the merchant’s policy; it is the Cardholders’ responsibility to ensure that the amount charged by the merchant and the receipt are correct. An Account activity statement is available on the web at https://t1online.clemson.edu. The Cardholder will be notified via the elected notification method when the statement is ready at the beginning of each month. Account Closure For students, TigerStripe accounts will remain open until – the student graduates, the student is no longer enrolled and becomes inactive, or – the student is disaffiliated with the university (i.e. official transfer or withdrawal). Any remaining balance will be applied to the student’s university bill. Any remaining balance in excess of the student's university bill will be refunded per university policy clemson.edu/finance/student-financials/adjustments/eRefunds.html For employees and affiliates (i.e. Affiliate, Retiree, or Emeritus), TigerStripe accounts will remain open until – the employee or affiliate is disaffiliated with the university (i.e. no longer employed or associated with the university), or a request is received to close the account. Any remaining balance will be refunded by direct deposit or check. Fees TigerOne Fees are as follows: Lost, Stolen, Damaged or Updated ID Card $30.00 Affiliate or Retiree ID Card $30.00 Returned Item Fee $30.00 Card Processing & Handling $15.00 A check or credit card given in payment of University expenses that is returned unpaid by the bank or is disputed creates indebtedness to the University. TigerOne will re-present returned items for payment of fees. If a payment is returned or dishonored for any reason, the student's iROAR account will be charged for the amount of the payment plus a $30 returned item fee. Access Control and Video Systems Clemson University uses access control systems and video surveillance systems for the purposes of enhancing the safety and security of all people and property on University property. Access and Video are recorded, monitored and stored in effort to prevent crime, identify suspects, and gather evidence. Information Disclosure TigerOne will keep Cardholder information confidential to the extent permitted by law. Account specific information will not be released to third parties except (a) where it is necessary for completing transactions, (b) in order to comply with subpoena or court order, (c) if you give your written permission, or d) if it is otherwise required under state or federal law. If you request the release of information to a third party, the release will expire when the card is no longer valid, or at your written request — whichever comes first. Electronic Information such as door access logs, and video recorded, collected or preserved in any manner is the property of Clemson University and may be used to provide for the safety and security of individuals and property within the University community. Electronic Information may be monitored for authorized safety and security purposes, such as, but not limited to: (a) protection of individuals, property and buildings; (b) investigation of misconduct and policy violations by members of the University community; (c) investigation of criminal activity; (d) patrol of common areas and areas accessible to the public; (e) ongoing operation and maintenance of a secure data facility; and (f) comparable reasons that likewise advance a legitimate institution purpose. Access to Electronic Information is strictly limited to authorized personnel with a reasonable need to obtain access, such as, but not limited to, CUPD, Human Resources, Vice President for Student Affairs (or designee), Office of General Counsel, Chief Information Officer (or designee) or Office of Internal Audit in conjunction with an investigation or internal audit. Electronic Information identified in these Terms and Conditions is limited to uses that do not violate federal, state, and local laws and regulations and University policies. Changes in Terms and Conditions The terms and conditions of the Card are effective upon receipt of the card and remain binding until the Cardholder is no longer affiliated with Clemson University. If any changes are made to the terms and conditions, TigerOne shall provide the Cardholder with notice of changes at least thirty (30) days in advance of the effective date. Prior notice need not be given where immediate change in terms and conditions is necessary to maintain or restore the security of the Card and Cardholder. Governing Law These terms and conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of South Carolina. Terms and Conditions Terms and Conditions General Terms ID Photo TigerStripe Account Lost, Stolen, Damaged and Updated Cards Cardholder Liability Refunds, Returns and Error Resolution Receipts and Statements Account Closure Fees Access Control and Video Systems Information Disclosure Changes in Terms and Conditions Governing Law Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson