Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Admitted Students Guide: International Students Graduate School Skip to Navigation Admitted Students Guide: International Students admitted students home Office of International Student and Scholar Services (OISSS) Office of International Students and Scholar Services Page-Robinson Hall, 3rd Floor 69 Brown Street (401) 863-2427 (401) 863-7543, fax [email protected] The Office of International Student & Scholar Services (OISSS) is a resource for admitted international students with questions – even before they arrive on campus. On behalf of Brown University, OISSS issues applicable immigration documents to international students and scholars and guides them through processes such a maintenance of nonimmigrant status, employment, social security card and driver’s license applications and more, all of which require dealing with various governmental agencies. OISSS is organized under the umbrella of the Office of Global Engagement (OGE), maintains cooperative relationships with the Graduate School, the CareerLAB and the Office of Campus Life. Externally, OISSS keeps in contact with government agencies and officials to keep abreast of policy and regulatory changes affecting its international clientele and to address specific issues. OISSS offers immigration and employment focused presentations at Orientation and throughout the year. The office interfaces with the International House of Rhode Island, whose programs include a weekly lunch for international students, scholars and their families, a Socrates café and numerous other social activities and classes throughout the year. Students are encouraged to set up an appointment online or by calling (401) 863-2427. For further information and upcoming events please visit the OISSS website. English for International Teaching Assistants Program English for International Teaching Assistants Program Center for Language Studies 195 Angell Street, 2nd Floor (401) 863-3043 The English for International Teaching Assistants (ITA) Program evaluates the English language proficiency of non-native English speaking graduate students who have been awarded teaching assistantships. If a student’s English language skills do not meet the minimum standards of certification, provisional approval of the appointment may be made on the condition that the student enroll in an English-language training course during the first semester of the appointment and be assigned to other duties that will prepare them for teaching. Students who might be appointed teaching assistantships in the future are strongly encouraged to be evaluated for English proficiency in their first year so that those who need to improve their English language skills have time to do so. During the academic year, the ITA program offers non-credit ESL courses (English for Internationals) that are designed to improve the spoken English language skills of international graduate students. The ITA program is a part of the Center for Language Studies (CLS). NOTE: Students who have not been certified at the appropriate level for the classroom or laboratory will not be supported as teaching assistants. International House of Rhode Island, Inc. International House of Rhode Island 8 Stimson Avenue, Providence (401) 421-7181 Alex Holt, Executive Director International House of Rhode Island (IHRI) promotes friendship, connection, learning, and global understanding by bringing people together from around the world for cross-cultural exchange. Located just a few blocks from the Brown campus, IHRI is an independent non-profit, community-based organization that provides a sense of belonging for international students and visitors; facilitates cultural expression and exchange; creates opportunities for cross-cultural learning; supports partners/children of visitors from other nations; aids language development through teaching and tutoring and works towards creating a community of global citizens. In a typical year approximately 1,000 unique individuals from over 70 countries participate in activities at IHRI. IHRI has a number of activities and services that support the graduate student community. IHRI serves as a residence for six graduate students. Rooms are available on a rolling basis and are reserved for international graduate students and scholars. Once a month IHRI hosts the Rhode Island International Spouses & Partners Association (RIISP+). The monthly gathering provides connections, networking, and resources to partners, spouses, or family members of graduate students and others who have moved to RI for work or school. Lastly, IHRI has an International Friendship Program that matches international graduate students with local families for friendship and cultural exchange. Students do not live with their American hosts, but have an opportunity to share their own culture and learn more about the local Rhode Island community. Check www.ihouseri.org for more information on upcoming events, classes, concerts, lunches/dinners and gatherings. You can also email [email protected] for more information and subscribe to their weekly e-newsletter here. All current Brown University students who come to IHRI receive free membership. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants