Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff Home > Home > Degree overview > Majors > Double degree and double major Double degree and double major Below are the details around double majors and double degrees. Credits required Double majors require a minimum of 180 credits, which is the minimum number of credits required for a degree at the UW. It may, however, take you more than 180 credits to complete all of the requirements for the two majors, depending on the requirements themselves and how efficient you are in taking them. Double degrees require a minimum of 225 credits (i.e., 180 for the first degree plus 45 for the second degree). Technically, the rule is that you must complete 45 credits more than the number required for the degree that requires the fewer credits. Normally this means that two degrees require 225 credits, because at least one of the degrees almost always requires 180 credits. Degree names Both majors of a double major must have the same degree name, and majors in a double degree must have different degree names. The easiest way to discern the degree name is to look for the word "degree" in the name. Everything to the left of the word "degree" is the degree name. For example: In "Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Communication", the degree name is "Bachelor of Arts." This major can be combined with any other "Bachelor of Arts" major to form a double major. In "Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration degree", the degree name is "Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration." This major cannot be part of a double major, but it could be part of a double degree. Degrees like this, with such specific names, are sometimes called named degrees. Overlap between majors Overlap between the core requirements of two majors is allowed to the extent that the major departments involved allow it. Consult departmental advisers. Overlap with General Education/Areas of Knowledge requirements When both of your majors or degrees are in the same college, you must complete the General Education requirements for that college. When the majors/degrees are in different colleges, you have to complete both sets of requirements. However, in most pairs of general education requirements, one set is a subset of the other. To the extent that the requirements do not overlap, you must complete the requirements for both colleges. In many cases, the only difference will be the foreign language requirement in the College of Arts and Sciences, the College of Education, and the School of Social Work. As usual, if at least one of your majors/degrees is in the College of Arts and Sciences, you may count no more than 15 credits from one major department toward the Areas of Knowledge requirement. However, when you double major/degree, courses from the second major may count toward the Areas of Knowledge requirement without restriction. You choose which major is the one with only 15 credits of overlap allowed. Declaring a double major or double degree Both majors do not have to be declared at the same time, although they may be. Visit declaring a major for more information on this process. Matriculation and residence requirements To earn a single UW degree (single or double major), a student must complete at least 45 UW credits as a matriculated student. To earn two UW degrees, simultaneous or sequential, a student must complete at least 90 UW credits as a matriculated student. A student earning two simultaneous UW degrees is allowed a maximum of 15 non-residence credits in the final 60 credits. In other words, 45 of the student's final 60 credits must be UW residence credits. The student is not allowed 15 non-residence credits for each degree. UW distance learning courses do not count as residence credit. Doubling within one department Double majoring in the same department is allowed only in multi-major departments. For example, a French major may double with Italian, even though both majors are within the French and Italian Studies Department. Whether you are allowed to complete both the B.A. and B.S. programs in one department, such as Biology, either as a double major or a double degree, is a decision made by the department involved. In general it is not allowed, although some departments allow a student with an earlier B.A. to return as a postbaccalaureate student to complete a B.S. Applying to graduate If you want to complete two majors or degrees, you should plan to graduate in the two programs simultaneously. If you graduate with one degree and not the other, you would have to apply for readmission to the University as a postbaccalaureate student to complete a second degree, and it is very difficult to be admitted as a postbaccalaureate student. Contact the Office of Admissions for more on postbaccalaureate status. You'll work with both of your departments to apply to graduate since both of them need to submit a graduation application. This is the case regardless of whether it's a double major or a double degree. There is a place on the application for the adviser to indicate whether it's a double major or degree. Double degrees and the 180-credit policy If you are pursuing a double degree, you are allowed 30 credits beyond what is required for your degrees. Since the minimum number of credits required for a double degree is 225, you may continue to enroll through the quarter in which you reach 255 credits. Transcripts and diplomas A double major will read on the transcript, for example: "Bachelor of Arts (English; Political Science)" You will receive one diploma that says "Bachelor of Arts." In general, majors are not posted on diplomas. A double degree will read, for example: "Bachelor of Arts (English)" and "Bachelor of Science (Biology)." You will receive two diplomas. Honors You may graduate with a double major or double degree in which you complete Departmental Honors requirements for both or just one of your majors. Transcript notation The major in which you do Departmental Honors is identified on your transcript at graduation. In the case of a double major with English as the honors department, for example, the transcript will read, "Bachelor of Arts (English; Political Science), With Honors in English" or, "Bachelor of Arts (English; Political Science), With College Honors in English," depending on whether the student completes Departmental Honors or College Honors. If the student completes the Interdisciplinary Honors requirements, but not Departmental Honors, s/he will earn Interdisciplinary Honors and the transcript will read, ""Bachelor of Arts (English; Political Science), With Interdisciplinary Honors" Diploma notation Majors are listed on the diploma only if awarded with honors. The diploma for the student in the above example would read "Bachelor of Arts, With Honors in English" or "Bachelor of Arts, With College Honors in English." Consider your financial aid Students are supposed to complete their program within 225 attempted credits. If you plan to take more than 225 credits, you should talk to Financial Aid Office as it may have implications to your financial aid. Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA