COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Sociology, Master's Master'sSociology All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Sociology Wichita State's Master of Arts in Sociology (MA) is a two-year program combining a strong foundation in sociological theory, research methods and evidence-based practice. Students gain a social justice perspective and develop insights about the effects of social structures on individual lives and communities. The program prepares you for work in a number of diverse fields, including research positions, teaching, social services and nonprofit agencies, as well as providing excellent preparation for a Ph.D. program. Options for both thesis and non-thesis programs provide students with hands-on experience conducting sociological research or engaging in applied sociological practice. Learn how Sociology is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program In addition to the WSU Grad School requirements, program admission requires: A minimum cumulative 3.0 GPA Completion of college algebra and at least 12 credit hours in a social science Three letters of reference from professors who are familiar with the applicant's academic performance A statement of purpose (500 words) stating research interests and academic/career goals For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum The program offers thesis and non-thesis options and requires the completion of an applied learning or research experience. Students in either program must take a total of 32 credit hours, and sixty percent of the credit hours in either program must be at the 700 level or above. Students electing the thesis program in sociology must pass an oral defense of the thesis. Students electing the non-thesis track must complete a directed project or sociological practice internship as well as a portfolio. View the curriculum Careers A sociology degree from Wichita State will connect you with opportunities for successful careers in a broad range of settings from research, social services and business to education, policy and health care. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Social Work (Master's) Communication (Master's) Public Administration (Master's) Criminal Justice (Master's) Community Psychology (Doctorate) Aging Studies (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©