Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Related Links Our Jesuit, Catholic hertiage University Mission & Ministry Office of Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality School of Theology and Ministry Reflections Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Spirituality Home Connect Spirituality Living the Mission The BC Alumni Spirituality programming attends to the sacramental, spirtual, and pastoral needs of the BC Alumni Community. All of this is accomplished through masses, retreats, service experiences, and faith programming. BCAA Illness and Grief Outreach If you know of an alumnus/a who is recently deceased, please let us know so that we can send a card to the family. To pass along information about deceased or ill alumni, email the BC Alumni Association at alumni.comments@bc.edu or call 617-552-4700. To learn more about Spirituality programming, contact bcspirit@bc.edu Related Links Our Jesuit, Catholic hertiage University Mission & Ministry Office of Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality School of Theology and Ministry Reflections STM Online: Crossroads Online learning for spiritual enrichment and faith renewal. Learn More On Eagles' Wings A confidential, online prayer request service for alumni, parents and friends of Boston College. Submit a Prayer Service Opportunities As graduates of a Jesuit, Catholic University we share a special commitment not to live for ourselves alone. We recognize that we are called to share our time, talent, and resources with the world around us. Volunteer Catholic Mass Schedule “Though the young faint and grow weary, and youths stagger and fall, they that hope in the Lord will renew their strength, they will soar with eagles' wings; They will run and not grow weary, walk and not grow faint. ” Isaiah, 40: 30-31 Alumni Association Masses Annual Alumni Memorial Mass Held the first Sunday of November at 11 a.m. at Trinity Chapel on Newton Campus, the Annual Memorial Mass provides an opportunity to remember and honor the memory of deceased alumni, family, and friends. Veterans Remebrance Mass and Ceremony Alumni are welcome to join us for our Annual Veterans Remembrance Mass and Ceremony. The event includes Mass and a ceremony with a guest speaker and roll call at the BC Veterans Memorial on Burns Library Lawn. A luncheon reception follows. Laetare Sunday Laetare Sunday, which marks the midpoint of Lent, has been celebrated annually at BC for more than 65 years. The day includes Mass presided over by University President William P. Leahy, S.J., followed by brunch and an address from a special guest speaker. This year, Laetare Sunday will be held on March 22, 2020. Living Our Faith The Church in the 21st Century Center is a catalyst and resource for the renewal of the Catholic Church. Learn more about C21 Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok