COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Shock Your Career Shock your career with professional development opportunities from Wichita State. Stay relevant in an ever-changing and shifting workforce and get the edge employers value. How to Apply Trade Adjustment Act (TAA) Offerings The TAA is a Federal program that provides aid to laid-off workers, including a wage subsidy called TRA and funding for up to two years of higher education. TAA funding can be used to pursue a credential or complete a bachelor’s or graduate degree. Kansas currently has the most trade impacted workers in the country, and Wichita State is working hard to make sure that we can assist them. BARTON SCHOOL OF BUSINESS Undergraduate Certificate in Business Analytics (12 hours) The undergraduate certificate in business analytics from Wichita State’s AACSB-accredited Barton School of Business will equip you with the knowledge and skills necessary to assist data-driven decisions in any industry. You'll learn quantitative tools that help build descriptive, predictive and prescriptive models. The undergraduate certificate in business analytics requires completing four classes. Learn more Graduate Certificate in Supply Chain Management (12 hours) This certificate is aimed at equipping students with a knowledge of supply chain practices used by companies around the world. The courses are structured to provide extensive conceptual and applied information about supply chain management. Learn more Graduate Certificate in Business Fundamentals (12 hours) Gain business knowledge in order to handle day to day business operations, manage workplace issues, and develop positive business relationships. The program provides an introduction to the major disciplines within the field of business as well as the opportunity to quickly gain business knowledge that is immediately applicable. Learn more Graduate Certificate in Advanced Business Fundamentals (15 hours) Gain business knowledge in order to handle day to day business operations, manage workplace issues, and develop positive business relationships. The program provides an introduction to the major disciplines within the field of business as well as the opportunity to quickly gain business knowledge that is immediately applicable. Learn more Graduate Certificate in Business Analytics (12 hours) This certificate in Business Analytics is aimed at providing students with exposure to a variety of data management approaches, analytical and statistical methods, and analytical tools used in the industry to run and manage analytics programs. Learn more Graduate Certificate in Human Resource Management Decision Making (12 hours) This certificate prepares students to make data-driven decisions, leverage reward strategies, and practice advanced HR techniques. NOTE: Combine both Human Resources Certificates to earn a Masters Degree. Learn more Graduate Certificate in Human Resource Management Skills (15 hours) This certificate provides foundational HR knowledge including theories, applications, and the critical role of HR decision making. NOTE: Combine both Human Resources Certificates to earn a Masters Degree. Learn more New Certificates Coming in Fall 2021 Visionary Leadership | Global Business | Human Resource Management | Entrepreneurship & Innovation | Remote Workforce Management See all Barton School graduate programs COLLEGE OF APPLIED STUDIES Major in Workforce Leadership and Applied Learning The Workforce Leadership and Applied Learning (WLAL) degree program is an undergraduate Bachelor of Applied Sciences degree focused on workforce education integration and building leadership skills. Ideal for individuals who may be displaced due to economic downturns and/or are wishing to refresh their leadership skills in areas such as management, logistical operations, talent development, employee training, hospitality, event planning etc. Key features of the degree include: On-the-job training, which be a current job or paid apprenticeships, internships, clinical rotations, and/or practica Flexible degree paths, including either online or in-person degree paths with a variety of courses to choose from. The WLAL degree is an applied degree with the goal of preparing students to be leaders, managers, specialists/trainers, or decision-makers for a range of industries, including not-for-profits, governmental agencies, manufacturing and technology, human service organizations and emergency services. Through collaborative paths with community colleges, technical schools, and evaluations of prior professional development, students can receive academic credit for documented work training and we work with all Associate’s and/or Applied Associate’s degrees. Learn more Online Minor in Workforce Leadership and Applied Learning (12 hours) Wichita State’s online minor in workforce leadership equips students with foundational knowledge for training, managerial, or leadership roles. The minor is a valuable addition for a wide range of majors and easily integrates with any career goal. Students securing a minor in Workforce Leadership will be prepared for leadership in a variety of industries and occupations, such as: Not-for-profits Governmental agencies or public administration Manufacturing and technology Human service organizations Emergency services Learn more Undergraduate Professional Training Certificate in eLeadership (9 hours) The eLeadership program is ideal for individuals who may be displaced due to economic down turns and who are wishing to refresh their leadership skills for leadership positions in areas such as management, business operations, talent development, employee training, hospitality, event planning etc. Our Professional Training Certificate in eLeadership helps grow or refine your digital leadership skills. Leaders learn: How to connect with individual employees How to help employees reach their potential by understanding their psychological needs Ideas for increasing productivity of remote employees How to apply your skills in an applied learning environment where you can work with your current organization, or work within a simulated organization Learn more Leading a Remote Workforce class (EDUC 751E) Leading a Remote Workforce is a 2-week course that prepares students for working in the modern workplace. The class Introduces important concepts associated with workforce productivity. Students learn about the psychological needs necessary to lead a workforce remotely, ways to better engage and motivate employees, how to manage autonomous working environments, and useful tools to maintain and/or increase professional productivity. COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING For questions or assistance with any of the College of Engineering courses listed below, contact Jason Bilberry at jason.bilberry@wichita.edu. Undergraduate Certificate in Fundamentals of Information Technology (12 hours) Wichita State’s undergraduate certificate in fundamentals of information technology equips students with the skill set needed for successful careers in the fast-growing information technology sector, including: cybersecurity, networking, computer hardware, internet of things, operating systems and more. The 12-credit hour certificate is composed of four courses that, if you choose, can later be applied towards completion of the Applied Computing bachelor’s degree. Learn more Undergraduate Certificate in Cybersecurity Essentials (13 hours) The Cybersecurity Essentials certificate helps students develop a broad and practical understanding of cybersecurity to solve real-world cybersecurity challenges. This 13-credit-hour certificate builds upon the Fundamentals of Information Technology certificate and can also later be applied towards completion of the Applied Computing bachelor’s degree. Learn more Graduate Certificate in Additive Manufacturing (15 hours) Wichita State’s graduate certificate in additive manufacturing will equip you with knowledge of this revolutionary process—allowing you to adapt your mindset to approach design problems in entirely new ways. Learn more Graduate Certificate in Information Assurance & Cybersecurity (12 hours) Designed for IT professionals and graduate students, this certificate imparts a strong understanding of the fundamentals of information assurance and cybersecurity, including areas such as security and privacy in network and internet systems, cyber-physical systems and critical infrastructure, Internet-of-Things, software systems and cloud computing. Learn more Graduate Certificate in Advanced Composite Materials (12 hours) Wichita State’s graduate certificate in advanced composite materials will equip you with knowledge of materials and processes, manufacturing, and structural analysis and design—which you can put to use in your current or future engineering career. Learn more Graduate Certificate in Computational Data Science (12 hours) Wichita State’s graduate certificate in computational data science is designed to give students an in-depth knowledge on data science tools, analytical workflows, machine learning algorithms and predictive modeling. Learn more Graduate Certificate in Nano Engineering (12 hours) For engineering and technology professionals and graduate students wanting a strong understanding of nano-engineering fundamentals and in-depth knowledge in critical and upcoming areas such as nanotechnology in electronics, drugs, vehicles, laser nano-built products, other nano-related manufacturing and new emerging nanotechnologies . Learn more Graduate Certificate in Foundations of Six Sigma & Quality Improvement (12 hours) The graduate certificate in Foundations of Six Sigma and Quality Improvement from Wichita State is for industry professionals wanting to enhance their skills in quality engineering and six sigma methodology. Learn more For all WSU degree programs, consult the Wichita State University Majors pages Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees How to Apply Undergrad / Returning Adult Grad School Admissions Other Training and Skill-Building Resources As part of the Shock Your Career program, you’ll have access to the Career Development Center and everything it has to offer, including career programs and events; applied learning opportunities; Handshake our online student employment database; LinkedIn Learning — an on-demand learning solution designed to help you gain new skills and advance your career and more! We offer personalized appointments for resume reviews, mock interviews, career advising, job search help, and career management skills. Contact us today to schedule your appointment at (316) 978-3688 or CareerDevelopment@wichita.edu. Career Development Center website Other Training and Skill-Building Resources Even if you can't take advantage of any of the TAA-eligible courses listed above,, Wichita State University offers other upskilling options that can make you more marketable in the form of Badges, Seminars and Professional Development courses. Badge Courses Center for Leadership Development 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©