Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy College of Sciences News Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches this fall with a new host. ﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ Research in 60 Seconds Video: Examining Effective Crisis Communication Pegasus Professor Timothy Sellnow, who teaches in the Nicholson School of Communication and Media, researches the importance and impact of simply using the right words during a crisis. 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting Florida. UCF’s Planetary Science Rock Stars Guests at MegaCon 2022 UCF faculty participate in pop culture convention to help people understand space science and why it matters in an entertaining way. UCF Developing Scam Screener for the Elderly A research team is creating tools to help doctors screen older adults who may be at a higher risk for getting scammed. From the Lab to Real Life Three UCF undergraduates are recipients of the esteemed Goldwater Scholarship, validating that their research work could bring groundbreaking results. National Engineering Association Honors UCF’s Space Dirt Expert The American Society of Civil Engineers recognized Pegasus Professor of Physics Dan Britt with the Aerospace Division’s Outstanding Technical Contribution Award, one of the organization’s top honors. UCF’s First Anthropology Ph.D. Graduate Looks Forward to Career Jane Holstrom, the inaugural graduate in the integrative anthropological sciences doctorate degree, specializes in studying remains in France. UCF’s First Ph.D. in Big Data Analytics Walks the Commencement Stage This Week Patrick (Phuong) Pho ’18MS says the sky is the limit with a Ph.D. in big data analytics, which is used for everything from recommending local restaurants to accelerating medical research. UCF Professor Awarded NSF Grant to Fund Groundbreaking Friction Research Masahiro Ishigami’s work is poised to help bridge a major knowledge gap in the application of nanoscale friction models to high-speed, real-world systems. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida