Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Government Relations and Policy Staff Local Government State Government Federal Government Advocate for UofM Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Advocate for the UofM Contact Us Home Government Relations and Policy Federal Federal Government At the Federal level, the Office of Government Relations works directly with congressional staff on all policy issues impacting higher education. We also develop earmark requests for funding of research and university projects. As part of the President's staff, The Office of Government Relations represents The University of Memphis through direct contact with elected officials, as well as with administrators within various federal agencies. Our staff monitors legislation and budget appropriations, in addition to assisting federal staff members to host various events from year to year on major policy issues. Project Highlights Biofuels Micro-Refineries for Local Sustainability The UofM Center for Biofuel Energy and Sustainable Technologies The Center for Biofuel Energy and Sustainable Technologies (BEST) at The University of Memphis was established to formulate effective holistic responses to our national energy system challenges. At present, the biofuel industry is undergoing rapid evolution. Every day brings the announcement of a new scientific discovery or achievement related to a new feedstock or conversion process. This University of Memphis program will establish local micro-refineries, capable of supplying energy required to support the local community utilizing completely renewable resources. This approach of harnessing renewable resources produced locally, such as used vegetable oil, brown grease from waste grease traps, and waste wood and paper products, will dramatically expand the number of communities and states that would benefit economically from the use of renewable fuels. These micro-refineries will use local waste and biomass, while being locally owned and operated. Memphis Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation The Memphis area is the major economic center for West Tennessee and the Mid-South region. Memphis has a strong history of entrepreneurship, but lags behind other regions of the nation in creating new businesses and, in particular, knowledge-based businesses. Because of this regional economic need, the University of Memphis is creating the Memphis Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation. Led by the FedEx Institute of Technology, and partnering with the Fogelman College of Business and Finance and the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law, the Center will provide the expertise to deliver a "one-stop shop" model for entrepreneurs. The Center will connect entrepreneurs to the public and private resource pools necessary for business growth, while providing business and legal expertise. Water Resources Development Act The UofM Ground Water Institute After years of negotiating, in 2007 Congress passed the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) by overriding a presidential veto. Once approved, WRDA authorized a collection of Army Corps of Engineers water infrastructure projects totaling $23 billion. Supporters of WRDA believe the high cost can be attributed to the backlog of projects since WRDA was last updated in 2000. It is supposed to be updated every year. Included in the Act, the Mississippi Embayment Groundwater Project, a collaboration between the University of Memphis, Arkansas State, and the University of Mississippi, is authorized for $5 million. Memphis-Shelby County Operation Safe Communities The UofM Center for Community Criminology and Research The University of Memphis, the City of Memphis, Shelby County, and other law enforcement agencies have partnered their efforts to fight violent crime and gang violence in Memphis. The University received a combined total of $2.452 million from federal earmarks in FY'08, all of which is being contributed to this community partnership. Center for Earthquake Research & Information The CERI is one of six regional centers funded by U.S. Geological Survey dedicated to providing research and information about earthquake hazards as part of the Advanced National Seismic System (ANSS). CERI receives funding from the state of Tennessee both directly and through the university. The University of Memphis CERI possesses unique research capabilities in seismic hazard and is poised to become a national leader in seismic analysis. It is critical that ANSS appropriation is funded at its annual authorization of $36 million. An increase in funding will allow the USGS ANSS program to expand its research capabilities, as well as directly impact the CERI at the UofM. Transportation Center UofM Transportation Institute The U.S. Department of Transportation's Research and Innovative Technology Administration awarded the Intermodal Freight Transportation Institute at the University of Memphis, in a consortia partnership with the University of Wisconsin-Madison, the coveted designation as a Tier 1 University Transportation Center worth $3.5 million for two years. Intelligent Network-Centric Sensor Development Program A challenge for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) is fighting unknown adversaries that can exploit our lack of situational awareness. Innovative technologies are critical for effective defense efforts. To build upon the FY10 funding the University of Memphis will continue to work toward requesting funding from the DoD for persistent surveillance and synergistic sensor research, including but not limited to networked sensors, network security, and sensor fusion techniques. Federal Government Offices White House United States Congress United States Senate United States House of Representatives Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/12/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.