Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About U-SoA Philosophy and Mission Statement History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us News and Events U-SoA Now Newsletter Events Golf 2021 All News Calendar People Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Academics Undergraduate Graduate Design Build Travel Programs U-SoA Rome Summer Programs for High School Students Research Certificates Resources Careers Academic Services Libraries Facilities Labs and Centers Student Affairs International Affairs C.U.C.D. Admissions Admission Requirements Visit U-SoA Financial Aid and Scholarships Registration Tuition and Fees Graduate Assistantships About U-SoA News and Events People Academics Resources Admissions Search Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff About U-SoA Philosophy and Mission Statement History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us News and Events U-SoA Now Newsletter Events Golf 2021 All News Calendar People Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Academics Undergraduate Graduate Design Build Travel Programs U-SoA Rome Summer Programs for High School Students Research Certificates Resources Careers Academic Services Libraries Facilities Labs and Centers Student Affairs International Affairs C.U.C.D. Admissions Admission Requirements Visit U-SoA Financial Aid and Scholarships Registration Tuition and Fees Graduate Assistantships Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Home People Alumni AAA Alumni Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff More Alumni News GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply U-SoA Alumnus in New York City, April 2019 during our Alumni Reception. More than 3,500+ alumni are the foundation of U-SoA. Their professional success is a testament to the rigors of their education and the dedication of their faculty. Our alumni, scattered around the globe, distinguish themselves not only in designing buildings, interiors, landscapes, and communities, but also, in leading their communities as teachers, entrepreneurs, and elected officials. They are role models and mentors for students still in school. Alumni involvement with our students and faculty through donations of time, treasure or talent, illustrates the collaborative endeavor that excellence in architectural education requires. All alumni of the School of Architecture are members of the School of Architecture Alumni Association and the University of Miami Alumni Association and are entitled to all of the benefits offered by U-SoA and the UMAA. Employment Opportunities Our alumni are some of our biggest employers. If you are looking to employ leading talent or looking for your next professional position, U-SoA and Toppel Career Services are your partner. Explore Jobs, Fellowships and other Opportunities. Be one of our many alumni network employers by posting a job or internship, hosting a UShadow student or participating in our Annual U-SoA Career Fair. Alumni Events We always welcome the opportunity to visit with our alumni. We invite you to join the fun at our annual U-SoA Alumni Barbecue during Alumni Weekend & Homecoming. Join us, host a table or purchase a ticket, U-SoA BBQ. For more information about the university's events during Alumni Weekend. We encourage you to stay connected. Engage with a full calendar of U-SoA Events. Support Our School Your donation to the University of Miami SoA helps students to achieve their full potential, encourages excellence in teaching and learning, and advances innovative research that leads to the discovery of new knowledge. No matter the amount, every gift makes a difference. Annual support from alumni is essential to our continuing success. Every gift, makes a difference. To donate online you may click, here. To discuss a gift or a particular program need, you may contact the School’s Development Director, Karina Alvarez, at (305) 284-5841 or Karina.Alvarez@miami.edu. Alumni Updates We are proud of the many accomplishments of our distinguished alumni. Please send updates regarding your career, projects or life events to Karina.Alvarez@miami.edu. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Architecture 1223 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284 3731 (305) 284 3731 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices