Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Prospective Students Home Prospective Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Dedman College's variety of graduate opportunities will help jumpstart your career. We offer superior training, top notch mentoring, and professional development. Not to mention that SMU is located with in the thriving metropolis of Dallas, Texas, consistently voted by Fortune magazine as one of the 10 best business locations in the U.S. and one of the 10 most livable cities in the world. Learn More Department Contacts Anthropology, tapowell@smu.edu Biology, rharrod@smu.edu Chemistry, rbobbyw@smu.edu Economics, stephanie@smu.edu English, rsudan@smu.edu Geology, sschwob@smu.edu Geophysics, sschwob@smu.edu History, jchavez@smu.edu Mathematics, lberry@smu.edu Medieval Studies, bwheeler@smu.edu Physics, kjh@smu.edu Psychology, westfall@smu.edu Religious Studies, vduran@smu.edu Statistics, sdrobert@smu.edu "While I was considering what graduate program I wanted to attend, I was able to speak with our advisor Dr. Robertson as well as then-current students. These conversations gave me the confidence that MASDA was exactly what I had been looking for: a top tier education that would allow me to develop applied statistics knowledge while gaining experience using industry standard as far as available technology for data science from insightful professors." – Vince Miller, M.S. in Applied Statistics and Data Analytics (MASDA) program, '19 Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube