Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law Clinics VanSickle Family Law Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic The VanSickle Family Law Clinic is new to the clinical program at SMU Dedman School of Law officially launched in January 2016. Many thanks to the Clinic's anonymous donor and its founding supporters for making this possible. The Clinic will provide much-needed assistance to unrepresented family law litigants in our community. Under the supervision of an experienced clinical faculty member, student associates will represent and provide counsel to low-income clients in matters of family law such as divorce, child custody, visitation, paternity, modifications, enforcement actions, child support, and adoption. Student associates are expected to take the lead in all aspects of their casework and be professionally responsible for the services they provide on behalf of their clients. Through client representation and the clinic seminar, student associates will have the opportunity to engage in the performance of fundamental lawyering skills necessary for competent representation and zealous advocacy. These skills will include but are not limited to, interviewing and counseling clients, negotiating, fact development and analysis, strategic case planning, conflict resolution and decision making, motion and trial practice, drafting legal pleadings and ancillary documents, organization and management of legal work, cultural competency, collaboration and self-evaluation. In the spring of 2017, the VanSickle Family Law Clinic launched a “self-help desk” at the George L. Allen, Sr. Courts Building to assist self-represented litigants in family law matters. The desk allows clinic student associates to review pro se forms and immediately inform and guide the pro se litigant on what they need to do to complete and/or correct the forms. In addition, the student associates fill routine procedural questions on matters related to divorce, child custody suits and other family law issues. In the spring of 2017, VanSickle student associates helped 357 pro se litigants. To Our Community Clinic Legal Services The VanSickle Family Law Clinic has reached its caseload capacity for the spring semester. Thus, we are no longer accepting applications. Please check back with us next semester (after August 20, 2022). Self-Help Videos Due to the Pandemic, the VanSickle clinic will not be conducting the Family Self Help Desk during this time. Please click below forour bilingual Self-Help videos. https://www.smu.edu/Law/Clinics/Vansickle-Family-Law/Videos For questions, please call (214)768-2562 or email us VanSickleFamilyLaw@smu.edu. Disclaimer: Thank you for visiting the VanSickle Clinic website. The site is provided for informational purposes only and should not be considered legal advice. The use of the internet or submission of an application to communicate with the VanSickle Clinic does not establish an attorney-client relationship. VanSickle News The SMU Dedman School of Law Family Law program including the VanSickle Family Law Clinic received an "A" ranking. preLaw Magazine, Back-to-School Issue, pg. 32, August 2021 "Top Schools for Family Law" National Jurist, September 2020 "Class Action - A new law clinic run by SMU lets students into the courtroom -- and clients find cheap justice" DMagazine, January 2018 “SMU Law Clinic Gives Fresh Start To Families In Distress” SMU Magazine 2017 "SMU's VanSickle Family Law Clinic Set To Open Next Month" -Preston Hollow/North Dallas Advocate, December 1, 2015 Contact Information Faculty and Staff Chante Brantley Director of the VanSickle Family Law Clinic and Associate Clinical Professor Vanessa Gonzalez Administrative Assistant VanSickle Family Law Clinic Mailing Address SMU Dedman School of Law P.O. Box 750116 Dallas, TX 75275-0116 Physical Address SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Suite 30 Dallas, TX 75205 VanSickle Family Law Clinic Self-Help Videos VanSickle Blog Engaging Students Testimonials VanSickle Family Law Clinic - 2019-2020 News VanSickle Family Law Clinic - 2017-2018 News VanSickle Family Law Clinic - 2016-2017 News Founding Supporters Resources for the Public For Students Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram