Skip to main content UTexas Home IT@UT Menu UTexas Home The University of Texas at Austin IT@UT Services Expand Contract Services & Consulting Email, Calendar & Collaboration ID, Accounts & Access Network, Media & Telecommunications Security Servers, Storage & Data Software & Applications Teaching, Classroom Technology & Labs Tech Support Web Publishing & Software Development Security Expand Students Expand Faculty & Staff Expand Guidance for Flexible Work Tools IT Staff Expand Projects Expand Metrics Expand Campus IT Policies Expand Search Search Home Web Linking Policy Web Linking Policy April, 2015 Campus IT Policies Last Updated: 2015-04-13 Last Reviewed: 2105-04-13 Purpose UT Austin complies with the State Website Linking and Privacy Policy. The purpose of The University of Texas at Austin (UT Austin) Web Linking Policy is to define provisions for members of the public to link to or copy information from a UT Austin website, as well as to outline UT Austin’s standards and criteria for linking to third-party websites. Scope UT Austin by and through its academic, research, and administrative units and programs, owns, controls, operates, or maintains websites under a number of domains or web addresses (collectively, a “UT Austin website”). This Web Linking Policy applies to all UT Austin websites. Linking to UT Austin Websites Advance permission to link to a UT Austin website is not required. UT Austin subpages may change or be deleted at any time without notice; entities and individuals are encouraged to routinely verify links to UT Austin website pages. An entity or individual may not capture UT Austin website content within a frame on another website, present the information as its own, or in any way modify the content and then present it as content of UT Austin. Certain information displayed on a UT Austin website may be trademarked, service-marked, or otherwise protected as intellectual property and must be used in accordance with state and federal laws and must reflect the proper ownership of the intellectual property. Links that create a downloading burden on UT Austin’s server(s), such as certain dynamic sites, graphics, or tables, constitute a misuse of state resources. Any link to UT Austin websites should pass the user’s browser to the appropriate page on the UT Austin website without barriers. The "back" button should return the visitor to the original site if the visitor wishes to back out. Entities or individuals that link to a UT Austin website should use reasonable efforts to ensure that persons with disabilities may access their websites. Visit the UT Austin Web Accessibility Policy for more information. Linking from UT Austin Websites Third-party websites comprise any non-UT Austin website. Linking to third-party websites that further the business goals and mission of UT Austin is permitted. Linking to another entity’s website does not constitute an endorsement of the content, viewpoint, accuracy, opinions, policies, products, services, or accessibility of the site. Visit the UT Austin Sponsorship Guidelines for more information. UT Austin reserves the right to deny links to third-party websites if it determines that a website contains misleading or unsubstantiated claims, conflicts with the purpose of UT Austin, or fails to conform to the requirements of this linking policy. External Web Sites Upon leaving a UT Austin website and visiting an external site, the policies governing the UT Austin website no longer apply. Questions and concerns regarding the information or services provided by a linked site must be directed to the entity or individual responsible for that site, rather than to UT Austin webmasters. Copying Information from UT Austin Websites Information posted on a UT Austin website, and accessible to members of the public, may not be copied unless it is in accordance with any limitations specified by this policy or federal copyright law, is not presented in a misleading way, and is not construed to be endorsed by UT Austin. Entities or individuals that copy and present UT Austin information must identify the source of the content, including the URL for the content or nearest entry point leading to the content if a URL is not available, and the date the content was copied. For example, the following content copied from the Harry Ransom Center would show the source of the information on the entity’s website: “The Harry Ransom Center—originally named the Humanities Research Center—was founded in 1957 by Harry Huntt Ransom, a visionary English professor who rose through the ranks at The University of Texas to dean, vice president and provost, president, and eventually chancellor.” [1] [1] “Harry Ransom Center Mission and History,” http://www.hrc.utexas.edu/about/mission/, Retrieved April 2, 2105. Entities or individuals that copy and present UT Austin information on their websites must accompany that information with a notification stating that UT Austin does not endorse the information as presented on their website, nor does it endorse the entity or individual. To protect the intellectual property of UT Austin, copied information must reflect the copyright, trademark, service mark, or other intellectual property rights of UT Austin. Privacy For more information on site privacy and confidentiality policies, visit the UT Austin Web Privacy Policy. Questions If you have questions or concerns about this Linking Policy, email the University Communications Standards Committee. Change Log Date Change Description 2015-04-13 Policy created. Get Help Information and guidance on technology resources available to support current working and teaching conditions: Instructional Continuity FAQ & Resources Guidance for Flexible Work Tools More Coronavirus Resources for Employees Service Desk ITS Service Desk provides IT support services related to EID, DUO, Office 365, email, Qualtrics, Box, and other central IT services. Call us at 512-475-9400 | help@utexas.edu Submit a help request online In-Person Services located at the FAC first floor Monday-Friday, 8am-6pm ID Card Services The ID Center provides ID cards for students, faculty, staff, official visitors and university affiliates as required. The ID Center also upgrades UT EIDs for eligible individuals to allow full access to online services. Call us at 512-475-9400 | ID_Center@utlists.utexas.edu Submit a help request online In-Person Services located at the FAC first floor Monday-Friday, 8am-6pm IT@UT Contact Us Information Technology Services UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022