<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Perspectives Perspectives Domingo Garcia-Huidobro MBA 2022 Video Video Home Region Santiago, Chile Undergrad Education Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile, BE, 2014 Previous Experience AES Gener, Systep Ingenieria y Diseños, Helios HBS Activities Energy & Environment Club, Latam Club, Crimson Parents Club. “I want to leverage my country’s great diversity to protect Chile’s environment and work toward building a carbon-neutral country.” Why did you choose this path at this point in time? I wanted to scale my solar startup back home, but I really didn’t understand how. I lacked a structured approach to entrepreneurship, tools, and connections. At HBS I have learned tons about entrepreneurship, and it has been great to look back and understand what we have done and where we want to go next. Coming to HBS is like... ...a bird coming out of its nest. You get pulled out of your comfort zone to an unknown that can be scary and intimidating at first. But you gradually realize you belong there, and that all you need to succeed is just to be yourself. Being part of the HBS community is like... ...the John Lennon’s song: “Imagine all the people, sharing all the world… You may say I’m a dreamer, but I’m not the only one.” As a kid, what did you want to be when you grew up? An astronaut! My father used to show me star maps all the time and I dreamed about seeing them closer. I still encourage my nieces and nephews to become astronauts. What is your favorite childhood memory? Being the youngest of a large family, alone time with my mom was very scarce. I loved that every Wednesday she would pick me up after school and take me out for lunch. We both knew that this was our little precious moment together. Who is one person from your life that you admire the most today? Definitely my wife. Her generosity never ceases to amaze me and I can’t believe how she masters the art of letting things go to just be happy in whatever situation we are. What’s the best thing about your home town? It’s very difficult to get lost in Santiago. You can see the beautiful Andes Mountains from basically everywhere and if you are walking in that direction, you know you are heading East. Knowing only that, it’s easy to move around. Topics Cleantech Environmental Sustainability Energy Home Region Santiago, Chile Undergrad Education Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile, BE, 2014 Previous Experience AES Gener, Systep Ingenieria y Diseños, Helios HBS Activities Energy & Environment Club, Latam Club, Crimson Parents Club. Topics Cleantech Environmental Sustainability Energy ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College