Skip to content Toggle navigation Sign-ons & more Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail CyHire Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Master of Professional Practice in Dietetics Search Toggle navigation Home Master of Professional Practice in Dietetics Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Human Sciences Iowa State University Future Students What You Need to Know Program Information Tuition and Financial Aid Locations and Schedules Global Sustainability Option FAQ Facility Search Application Portal Current Students What You Need to Know Academic Information and Policies Prior Learning Assessment and Recognition Graduate College Online Forms ISPP Preceptors Role and Resource Information Preceptor Role Orientation and Continuing Education Success Stories Faculty and Staff Alumni Alumni Information DI Alumni MPP Alumni Master of Professional Practice Thank you for your interest in the Master of Professional Practice in Dietetics (MPP) at Iowa State University, a Champion Pilot Site for the Nutrition in Food Retail Curriculum. The MPP is a Future Graduate Program, providing an online, distance, full-time, non-thesis graduate program option to train future Registered Dietitian Nutritionists. A recording of the recent virtual open house can be found here. Many of the questions you may have about the program and applying to our program can be answered by visiting the Application Portal, Program Information, FAQ pages. Questions can be directed to us at mppisu@iastate.edu. Welcome to Our Program! Learn About Our Application Process Learn About Our Curriculum (handout) Why You Should Apply Please note that effective January 1, 2024, the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) will require a minimum of a master’s degree to be eligible to take the credentialing exam to become a registered dietitian nutritionist (RDN). In order to be approved for registration examination eligibility with a bachelor’s degree, an individual must meet all eligibility requirements and be submitted into CDR’s Registration Eligibility Processing System (REPS) before 12:00 midnight Central Time, December 31, 2023. For more information about this requirement visit CDR’s website. In addition, CDR requires that individuals complete coursework and supervised practice in program(s) accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND). Graduates who successfully complete the ACEND-accredited MPP program at Iowa State University are eligible to apply to take the CDR credentialing exam to become an RDN. MPP graduates upon successfully passing the CDR credentialing exam to become an RDN, are eligible to apply for state licensure or certification to practice. It is ACEND’s considered opinion that the MPP program is designed to and does meet all state dietetics licensure and certification laws. Details on state licensure requirements can be found on the CDR’s website. Learn more about the educational pathways to become an RDN at Iowa State University. Opportunities for dietetics practitioners are limited only by your imaginations. Learn more about some of the potential job opportunities for a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist. The Iowa State University MPP is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND®) 120 South Riverside Plaza, Suite 2190, Chicago, IL 60606-6995; 800-877-1600, ext 5400. https://www.eatrightpro.org/ACEND Master of Professional Practice in Dietetics CONTACT 1127 Human Nutritional Sciences Bldg. 706 Morrill Road | Ames, Iowa 50011-2101 Phone: 515-294-7565 In order to receive the most prompt and accurate information, all incoming questions should be directed to our email address. Email us! Copyright © 2005-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility hswebmaster@iastate.edu Trouble with the website? Report a problem or provide feedback.