Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING MECHANICAL ENGINEERING Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 M E 123 Introduction to Visualization and Computer-Aided Design (4) VLPA/NW Adee Methods of depicting three-dimensional objects and communicating design information. Development of three-dimensional skills through freehand sketching and computer-aided design using parametric solid modeling. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: M E 123 M E 124 Visualization and Computer-Aided Design Laboratory (2) VLPA/NW Adee Methods of depicting three-dimensional objects and communicating design information. Development of three-dimensional visualization skills through computer-aided design using parametric solid modeling. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: M E 124 M E 230 Kinematics and Dynamics (4) NW Kinematics of particles, systems of particles, and rigid bodies; moving reference frames; kinetics of particles, systems of particles, and rigid bodies; equilibrium, energy, linear momentum, angular momentum. Prerequisite: A A 210. Instructors: Fabien View course details in MyPlan: M E 230 M E 299 Independent Project (1-3, max. 10) Research on special topics under supervision of a faculty member. May include design and construction projects. May not be used to satisfy upper-division major requirements Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: M E 299 M E 323 Engineering Thermodynamics (5) John C Kramlich Engineering thermodynamics, including thermodynamic concepts and properties, the first and second laws of thermodynamics, energy conversion, refrigeration, humidification, and combustion. Engineering design applications. Prerequisite: either CHEM 142, CHEM 143, or CHEM 145; either MATH 126 or MATH 136; and either PHYS 121 or PHYS 141. View course details in MyPlan: M E 323 M E 331 Introduction to Heat Transfer (4) Study of heat transfer by conduction, radiation, and convection; elementary heat-exchanger design. Prerequisite: either M E 333 or CEE 342. Instructors: Emery View course details in MyPlan: M E 331 M E 333 Introduction to Fluid Mechanics (5) James J Riley Introduction to the basic fluid laws and their application. Conservation equations, dynamic similarity, potential flow, boundary-layer concepts, effects of friction, compressible flow, fluid machinery, measurement techniques. Prerequisite: AMATH 301; M E 323; and either MATH 207 or AMATH 351. View course details in MyPlan: M E 333 M E 341 Energy and Environment (3) NW Energy use. Fossil energy conversion. Oil, gas, coal resources. Air impacts. Nuclear energy principles, reactors, fuel cycle. Prerequisite: either MATH 112, MATH 124, MATH 134, or Q SCI 291; either CHEM 120, CHEM 142, CHEM 143, CHEM 145, PHYS 114, PHYS 121, or PHYS 141. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 341/ENVIR 341; A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 341 M E 354 Mechanics of Materials Laboratory (5) Properties and behavior of engineering materials including stress-strain relations, strength, deformation mechanisms, strength, deformation, fracture, creep, and cyclic fatigue. Introduces experimental techniques common to structural engineering, interpretation of experimental data, comparison of measurements to numerical/analytical predictions, and formal, engineering report writing. Lecture and laboratory. Prerequisite: MSE 170, CEE 220. Instructors: Tuttle View course details in MyPlan: M E 354 M E 355 Introduction to Manufacturing Processes (4) Study of manufacturing processes, including interrelationships between the properties of the material, the manufacturing process, and the design of components. Interpretation of experimental data, comparison of measurements to numerical/analytical predictions, and formal, engineering report writing. Prerequisite: M E 354. Instructors: Ramulu View course details in MyPlan: M E 355 M E 356 Machine Design Analysis (4) Analysis, design, and selection of mechanical and electromechanical subsystems and elements, such as gears, linkages, cams, motors, and bearings. Prerequisite: M E 354. Instructors: Chung View course details in MyPlan: M E 356 M E 373 Introduction to System Dynamics (5) Joseph L Garbini Mathematical modeling, analysis, and design of physical dynamic systems involving energy storage and transfer by lumped-parameter linear elements. Time-domain response by analytical methods and numeric simulation. Laboratory experiments. Prerequisite: either AMATH 351 or MATH 207; either AMATH 352 or MATH 208; E E 215; and M E 230. View course details in MyPlan: M E 373 M E 374 Systems Dynamic Analysis and Design (5) Extension of M E 373. Frequency response analysis, generalized impedance concepts and applications, Fourier series analysis and Laplace transform techniques. Modeling and analysis of electromechanical actuators and rotating machinery. Laboratory experiments and design projects. Prerequisite: AMATH 301; M E 373. Instructors: Garbini View course details in MyPlan: M E 374 M E 395 Introduction to Mechanical Design (4) Design process and methodology; decision making; optimization techniques; project planning; engineering economics; probabilistic and statistical aspects of mechanical design; ethical and legal issues. Prerequisite: M E 123; M E 323; IND E 315 or MATH 390/STAT 390 either of which may be taken concurrently. Instructors: Cooper View course details in MyPlan: M E 395 M E 402 Additive Manufacturing: Materials, Processing and Applications (3) Additive manufacturing processes for polymers, metals, ceramics and composite materials. Operating principles, key process parameters important to the part build process, and the importance of design. Microstructure of the build parts, dependence on processing conditions, the mechanical and physical properties, defects and relevant post-processing treatments for each material system. Hybrid processes, and adoption in various fields. Offered: jointly with MSE 489; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: M E 402 M E 410 Nanodevices: Design and Manufacture (3) Chung Examines design, fabrication, and manufacture of nano devices with state-of-the-art nanotechnology. Covers classification and selection of nanoscale materials and manufacturing methods: Includes nanodevice design projects. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 410 M E 411 Biological Frameworks for Engineers (3) Sniadecki Introduces the fundamentals of biology for an engineer. Covers mechanisms and biomechanics of DNA, proteins, cells, connective tissue, musculoskeletal tissue, and cardiovascular tissue, integration principles of living systems, structure-function relationships, and techniques to study biology and medicine, and tissue engineering. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 411 M E 412 Biomechanics of Movement (3) K. Steele Introduction to the dynamics and control of human movement and other biological systems. An overview of the major challenges in movement biomechanics and experience with the engineering tools we use to address these challenges. Course includes weekly assignment, hands-on labs, and a final project. Prerequisite: ME 374, or permission of instructor Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: M E 412 M E 414 Engineering Innovation in Health (3) Soyoung Kang, Eric J. Seibel, Jonathan D Posner Introduces the role of Innovation and engineering in the design of medical devices and healthcare technologies, applicable both to medical practice and healthcare-focused engineering. May serve as the first course in a medically related senior design project sequence. Discusses medical practice, clinical needs finding, FDA regulation, insurance reimbursement, intellectual property, and the medical device design process. Recommended: M E 123 and M E 354. Offered: jointly with E E 414; A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 414 M E 419 Biomechanics Seminar (1, max. 4) N. Sniadecki, K. Steele Weekly seminar on biomechanics research, presented by faculty members, researchers, and graduate students from UW, other institutions, and industry. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: M E 419 M E 425 HVAC Engineering (4) Heating, ventilating, and air conditioning of built environment. Human comfort, psychometric processes, load computations, fluid distribution, and controls. Design analysis of HVAC system is taught in the lectures and applied in the class project. Prerequisite: M E 323; M E 331. Instructors: Emery View course details in MyPlan: M E 425 M E 426 Renewable Energy II (3) B. POLAGYE Explores renewable energy principles and practices of energy conversion, focusing on energy conversion from wind and water. Prerequisite: M E 333. View course details in MyPlan: M E 426 M E 430 Advanced Energy Conversion Systems (4) Advanced and renewable energy conversion systems and technologies are treated. Included are high efficiency combined cycles; renewable energy conversion involving solar, wind, and biomass; direct energy conversion and fuel cells; and nuclear energy. Environmental consequences of energy conversion and environmental control are discussed. Prerequisite: M E 323. Instructors: Kramlich View course details in MyPlan: M E 430 M E 431 Advanced Fluid Mechanics (4) Advanced topics in fluid mechanics, including kinematics, potential theory and vortex dynamics, viscous flow, turbulence, experimental and numerical methods, and design. Prerequisite: M E 333. Instructors: Mescher View course details in MyPlan: M E 431 M E 440 Advanced Mechanics of Materials and Solids (3) Study of mechanics of deformable bodies, including three-dimensional stress and strain tensors and their transformations. Equations of compatibility, continuity and equilibrium. Elastic constants. Failure criteria including fracture, yield, and instability. Deflection relations for complex loading and shapes. Indeterminate problems. Design applications and numerical methods. Prerequisite: M E 354. View course details in MyPlan: M E 440 M E 445 Introduction to Biomechanics (4) J. SANDERS Presents the mechanical behavior of tissues in the body and the application to design of prostheses. Tissues studies include bone, skin, fascia, ligaments, tendons, heart valves, and blood vessels. Discussion of the structure of these tissues and their mechanical response to different loading configurations. An important part of the class is a final project. Offered: jointly with BIOEN 440; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: M E 445 M E 450 Introduction to Composite Materials and Design (3) Tuttle Stress and strain analysis of continuous fiber composite materials. Orthotropic elasticity, lamination theory, failure criterion, and design philosophies, as applied to structural polymeric composites. View course details in MyPlan: M E 450 M E 459 Introduction to Fracture Mechanics (3) Deformation processes leading to fracture, and linear elastic fracture mechanics. Fatigue crack propagation. Fracture control and failure analysis. Prerequisite: M E 354; M E 356. Instructors: Ramulu View course details in MyPlan: M E 459 M E 460 Kinematics and Linkage Design (3) Ganter Synthesis of linkage-type mechanisms using graphical and computer methods. View course details in MyPlan: M E 460 M E 461 Mechanics of Thin Films (3) Wang Provides an overview of the thin film deposition processes; the stress and microstructure development during film growth; the mechanisms of adhesion; delamination and fracture; and the state-of-the-art characterization techniques for the microstructure and mechanical properties of thin films, coatings, and nanomaterials. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 461 M E 469 Applications of Dynamics in Engineering (4) Application of the principles of dynamics to selected engineering problems, such as suspension systems, gyroscopes, electromechanical devices. Includes introduction to energy methods, Hamilton's principle and Lagrange equations, and the design of dynamic system. Prerequisite: M E 374. Instructors: Storti View course details in MyPlan: M E 469 M E 470 Mechanical Vibrations (3) Single-degree-of-freedom linear systems techniques. Matrix techniques for multi-degree-of-freedom linear systems. Applications in vibration isolation, transmission, and absorption problems and instrumentation. Prerequisite: M E 373. Instructors: Reinhall View course details in MyPlan: M E 470 M E 471 Automatic Control (4) Dynamic system modeling; control system stability and performance analysis; compensator design by Bode and root-locus methods. Prerequisite: M E 374. Instructors: Berg View course details in MyPlan: M E 471 M E 473 Instrumentation (4) Principles and practice of industrial and laboratory measurement. Dynamics of instrument response; generalized performance analysis of sensor systems; theory of transducers for motion, force, pressure, flow, and other measurements. Lecture and laboratory. Prerequisite: M E 374. Instructors: Garbini View course details in MyPlan: M E 473 M E 477 Embedded Computing in Mechanical Systems (4) Analysis of electromechanical systems employing microcomputers for control or data acquisition. Microcomputer architecture, memory organization, C language programming, interfaces, and communications. Particular emphasis on design of hardware and software interfaces for real-time interaction with mechanical systems. Weekly laboratory. Prerequisite: M E 374. Instructors: Garbini View course details in MyPlan: M E 477 M E 478 Finite Element Analysis (4) Per G Reinhall Development of theory and concepts of finite element analysis. Applications in all areas of mechanical engineering, including mechanics of solids, heat transfer, and design of dynamical systems. Weekly computer exercises. Prerequisite: M E 123; M E 374; and either MATH 208 or AMATH 352. View course details in MyPlan: M E 478 M E 480 Introduction to Computer-Aided Technology (4) Principles of computer-aided technology. Computer-aided design, engineering, drafting, and manufacturing; computer-aided design systems, geometry, computer graphics, hardware, computer-aided vehicle/system design synthesis. System demonstrations, laboratories, and site visits. Prerequisite: M E 123; AMATH 301. Instructors: Ganter View course details in MyPlan: M E 480 M E 493 Introduction to Capstone Design (3) Eli Patten Provides overview of engineering design process and professional skills that prepares students for their capstone design project and engineering workplaces. Topics include engineering design process and methodology, overview of several frameworks and tools common in mechanical engineering, teamwork and project management, and technical communication. Prerequisite: M E 123 and M E 354. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 493 M E 494 Capstone Design I (3-) Eli Patten Capstone design project involving identification and synthesis of mechanical engineering skills. Students work in a team to apply their knowledge of mechanical engineering to representative engineering problems. Topics may include design methodology, analysis techniques, project management, engineering economics, engineering ethics. Prerequisite: M E 493; recommended: M E 355. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: M E 494 M E 495 Capstone Design II (-3) Eli Patten A continuation of M E 494. Course content varies from year to year and is dependent on the design topic chosen for M E 494. Prerequisite: M E 494. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: M E 495 M E 496 Technology-Based Entrepreneurship (3) Concentrates on hands-on aspects of innovation and entrepreneurial enterprise development. Examines relationships between innovation, iterative prototyping, and marketing testing. Students identify market opportunities, create new technology-based products and services to satisfy customer needs, and construct and test prototypes. Offered: jointly with IND E 496; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: M E 496 M E 498 Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering (1-5, max. 6) Lecture and/or laboratory. Maximum of 6 credits may be applied toward an undergraduate degree. View course details in MyPlan: M E 498 M E 499 Special Projects (1-5, max. 6) Written report required. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: M E 499 M E 500 Advanced Composite Structural Analysis (3) Covers advanced stress analysis methods for composite structures made of beams, laminates, sandwich plates, and thin shells; stress and buckling analyses of solid and thin-walled composite beams; shear deformable theory for bending of thick laminated plates; and stress and fracture mechanics analysis of bonded joints. Prerequisite: A A 532. Offered: jointly with A A 535; Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: M E 500 M E 501 Modern Manufacturing Processes (3) Ramulu General survey and introduction to modern manufacturing engineering processes. Fundamental principles and practices of modern manufacturing processes. Case studies and exercises relating the course material directly to modern industrial practice. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 501 M E 503 Continuum Mechanics (3) Reviews concepts of motion, stress, energy for a general continuum; conservation of mass, momentum, and energy; and the second law; constitutive equations for linear/nonlinear elastic, viscous/inviscid fluids, and general materials; and examples/solutions for solid/fluid materials. Offered: jointly with A A 503; A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 503 M E 504 Introduction to Microelectro Mechanical Systems (4) Theoretical and practical aspects in design, analysis, and fabrication of MEMS devices. Fabrication processes, including bulk and surface micromachining. MEMS design and layout. MEMS CAD tools. Mechanical and electrical design. Applications such as micro sensors and actuators, or chemical and thermal transducers, recent advances. Cannot be taken for credit if credit received for EE P 504. Offered: jointly with E E 504/MSE 504. View course details in MyPlan: M E 504 M E 506 Additive Manufacturing: Materials, Processing and Applications (3) Additive manufacturing processes for polymers, metals, ceramics and composite materials. Operating principles, key process parameters important to the part build process, and the importance of design. Microstructure of the build parts, dependence on processing conditions, the mechanical and physical properties, defects and relevant post-processing treatments for each material system. Hybrid processes, and adoption in various fields. Offered: jointly with MSE 589; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: M E 506 M E 507 Incompressible Fluid Mechanics (3) Covers inviscid and viscous imcompressible flows, exact solutions of laminar flows, creeping flows, boundary layers, free-shear flows, vorticity equation, and introduction to vortex dynamics. Offered: jointly with A A 507; W. View course details in MyPlan: M E 507 M E 508 Theory and Design for Mechanical Measurements (3) Fundamental concepts of mechanical measurements, principles of sensors and transducers, signal conditioning and data acquisition, advanced experiment planning and analysis, and applications in mechanical engineering. View course details in MyPlan: M E 508 M E 510 Mathematical Foundations of Systems Theory (4) Mathematical foundations for system theory presented from an engineering viewpoint. Includes set theory; functions, inverse functions; metric spaces; finite dimensional linear spaces; linear operators on finite dimensional spaces; projections on Hilbert spaces. Applications to engineering systems stressed. Offered: jointly with A A 510/CHEM E 510/E E 510. View course details in MyPlan: M E 510 M E 511 Biological Frameworks for Engineers (3) Sniadecki Introduces the fundamentals of biology for an engineer. Covers mechanisms and biomechanics of DNA, proteins, cells, connective tissue, musculoskeletal tissue, and cardiovascular tissue, integration principles of living systems, structure-function relationships, and techniques to study biology and medicine, and tissue engineering. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 511 M E 512 Biomechanics of Movement (3) K. Steele Introduction to the dynamics and control of human movement and other biological systems. An overview of the major challenges in movement biomechanics and experience with the engineering tools we use to address these challenges. Course includes weekly assignment, hands-on labs, and a final project. Prerequisite: ME 374, or permission of instructor Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: M E 512 M E 514 Engineering Innovation in Health (3) Jonathan D Posner, Soyoung Kang, Eric J. Seibel Introduces the role of innovation and engineering in the design of medical devices and healthcare technologies, applicable both to medical practice and other healthcare-related needs. May serve as the first course in a medically-related graduate design project sequence. Discusses medical practice, clinical needs finding, regulatory approval, insurance reimbursements, intellectual property, and the medical device design process. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 514 M E 515 Life Cycle Assessment (3) Cooper Presents and discusses the computation structure and data sources for environmental Life Cycle Assessment. Uses Life Cycle Assessment to analyze materials, products, and services. The analysis either identifies opportunities for improvements or selects a superior alternative on the basis of pollution prevention and resource conservation. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: M E 515 M E 516 Advanced Manufacturing and Energy Technologies (3) C. Cobb Advanced manufacturing and processing methods for energy devices and systems will be examined, including but not limited to the following application areas: batteries, fuel cells, solar cells, and sensors. This course will study the role of manufacturing in clean energy, discuss current challenges, and investigate opportunities for performance improvement. Recommended: An undergrad training in mechanical or materials science engineering. Prior coursework or experience in the following areas is required: M E 355 or equivalent, M E 395 or equivalent, M E 354 or equivalent, and M E 333 or equivalent. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: M E 516 M E 519 Biomechanics Seminar (1, max. 4) N. Sniadecki, K. Steele Weekly seminar on biomechanics research, presented by faculty members, researchers, and graduate students from UW, other institutions, and industry. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: M E 519 M E 520 Seminar (-1, max. 20) The graduate seminar series presents speakers of varied interests, industries, and professions. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: M E 520 M E 521 Thermodynamics (3) Fundamental concepts of temperature, thermodynamic properties, and systems. The first, second, and combined laws. Development of the relations of classical thermodynamics. Introduction to statistical thermodynamics. Prerequisite: M E 323 and graduate standing in mechanical engineering or permission of instructor. Instructors: Kramlich Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 521 M E 522 Thermodynamics (3) Topics from statistical thermodynamics, including the Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein, and Fermi-Dirac statistics. Solutions of the Schrodinger wave equation and evaluation of the partition function for translation, rotation, and vibration. Prerequisite: M E 521 or permission of instructor. Instructors: Malte View course details in MyPlan: M E 522 M E 523 Energy and Environment Seminar (1, max. 20) Malte Student discussions of topics in combustion science and technology, alternative fuels, renewable energy, environmental consequences of energy conversion, and design for environment. Also, presentations by outside experts. May be repeated for credit. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: M E 523 M E 524 Combustion (3) Chemical and physical processes of combustion with applications to design of combustors, fuel selection, and consideration of environmental effects. Prerequisite: graduate standing in mechanical engineering or permission of instructor. Instructors: Kramlich Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: M E 524 M E 525 Applied Acoustics I (3) Introduces acoustics through various applications such as medical ultrasound, underwater sound, noise control and vibrations. Includes linear acoustics, wave equation, planewave solutions, acoustics scales; reflection, refraction, scattering and diffraction, acoustic sources, radiation form transmission through plates. Prerequisite: graduate standing in Engineering, allied field, or permission of instructor. Instructors: Dahl, Reinhall Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: M E 525 M E 526 Special Topics in Acoustics (3) Advanced study of special topics in acoustics, such as medical ultrasound, underwater sound, noise control and vibrations. Prerequisite: ME 525, or permission of instructor. Instructors: Dahl, Reinhall Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 526 M E 527 Musculoskeletal Biomechanics (4) William R. Ledoux, Scott Telfer, Joseph M. Iaquinto A broad introduction to musculoskeletal biomechanics, i.e., applying engineering mechanics to the human body. Examines: experimental techniques; anatomy; basic structure-function relationships; and implementation into research and commercial applications. Briefly covers scientific writing and presentations, literature reviews, and regulatory considerations. Offered: jointly with BIOEN 520. View course details in MyPlan: M E 527 M E 528 Acoustics of Environmental Noise (4) Offered: jointly with CEWA 554. View course details in MyPlan: M E 528 M E 529 Advanced Energy Conservation Systems (4) Kramlich Covers advanced energy conversion systems and technologies, including high efficiency combined cycles, advanced rankine, integrated gasification combined cycle, nuclear, biomass thermal conversion, and fuels cells. Discusses environmental consequences. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 529 M E 530 Radiative Heat Transfer (3) Mescher Covers black and gray body radiation, radiative material properties, radiation exchange between surfaces, radiation in participating media, and combined radiation with conduction or convection. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: M E 530 M E 531 Conductive Heat Transfer (3) Analysis of steady-state and transient heat conduction in single- and multidimensional systems by mathematical, graphical, numerical, and analogical methods. Prerequisite: graduate standing in mechanical engineering or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: M E 531 M E 532 Convective Heat Transfer (3) Introduction to fluid flow and boundary-layer theory as applicable to forced- and natural-convection heat transfer. Condensation and boiling heat transfer. Prerequisite: graduate standing or permission of instructor. Instructors: Kramlich Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: M E 532 M E 534 Fluid Mechanics II (3) Review of basic principles, some exact solutions and their interpretation, waves (water waves, sound waves, shock waves), boundary layers, jets and wakes, flow stability, turbulence, applications. Prerequisite: M E 507 or permission of instructor. Instructors: Riley Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: M E 534 M E 535 Computational Techniques in Mechanical Engineering (3) Advanced heat transfer studies of interest to mechanical engineers. Subject coverage varies from year to year. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Emery Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: M E 535 M E 536 Micro and Nanoscale Fluid Transport Phenomena (3) Posner, Shen Focuses on fundamental fluid transport physics at the micro/ and nanometer scale for applications in micro/nanofluidic devices. Presents the core concepts of low-Reynolds number Newtonian fluid mechanics; mass transfer; charged double layers; electrokinetically driven flow and transport; and surface tension. Discusses state of the art micro and nanoscale total analytical devices. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: M E 536 M E 537 Topics in Fluid Mechanics (3) Selected fluid mechanics relevant to current advances in research and application. Topics selected vary with faculty and student interest, but have included flow stability, special topics in turbulence, and turbulent reacting flows. View course details in MyPlan: M E 537 M E 538 Advanced Fluid Mechanics (4) J. RILEY Advanced topics in fluid mechanics, including kinematics; potential theory and vortex dynamics; viscous flow; turbulence; numerical methods; and design. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 538 M E 539 Renewable Energy I (4) Devin MacKenzie Covers the underlying physics, manufacturing and performance of current and emerging photovoltaic solar cell and module technologies in a comparative approach. The course will also present practical aspects of the solar resource, module integration, systems and energy production. Recommended: Undergraduate physics and chemistry at the engineering or science level. Students without some previous solid state physics, electronic materials, or semiconductor device coursework may require extra reading. Offered: jointly with MSE 539; W. View course details in MyPlan: M E 539 M E 540 Renewable Energy II (3) Malte Explores renewable energy, principles and practices of energy conversion, focusing on wind and hydrokinetic energy. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: M E 540 M E 541 Fatigue of Materials (3) Ramulu Macro and micro aspects of fatigue of metals and fatigue mechanisms. Analytical methods for fatigue and life assessment in advanced materials. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: M E 541 M E 543 Fluid Turbulence (3) Methods of characterizing fluid turbulence; probability concepts; spatial and temporal velocity correlations; spectral energy transfer; turbulent diffusion; isotropic turbulence and Kolmogoroff's hypothesis; Taylor's hypothesis; hot-wire measurement techniques. Prerequisite: 3 credits of graduate level fluid mechanics or permission of instructor. Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: M E 543 M E 544 Advanced Turbulence Modeling Techniques (3) The Reynolds stress transport equations; plane homogeneous shear flow; modeling the pressure-strain, diffusion, and dissipation rate correlation tensors; one and two-equation turbulence models; near-wall turbulence and wall functions; limitations of length scale and eddy viscosity modeling. Prerequisite: 3 credits of turbulence-related coursework. Instructors: Riley Offered: Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: M E 544 M E 546 Micro-Scale Heat Transfer (3) Mescher Covers advanced heat conduction and radiation principles, emphasizing micro-scale applications. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: M E 546 M E 547 Linear Systems Theory (4) Xu Chen Linearity, linearization, finite dimensionality, time-varying vs. time-invariant linear systems, interconnection of linear systems, functional/structural descriptions of linear systems, system zeros and invertibility, linear system stability, system norms, state transition, matrix exponentials, controllability and observability, realization theory. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: M E 547 M E 548 Linear Multivariable Control (3) Introduction to MIMO systems, successive single loop design comparison, Lyapunov stability theorem, full state feedback controller design, observer design, LQR problem statement, design, stability analysis, and tracking design. LQG design, separation principle, stability robustness. Prerequisite: A A 547/E E 547/M E 547. Offered: jointly with A A 548/E E 548. View course details in MyPlan: M E 548 M E 549 Estimation and System Identification (3) Fundamentals of state estimation for linear and nonlinear systems. Discrete and continuous systems. Probability and stochastic systems theory. Models with noise. Kalman-Bucy filters, extended Kalman filters, recursive estimation. Numerical issues in filter design and implementation. Prerequisite: either A A 547, E E 547, or M E 547. Offered: jointly with A A 549/E E 549. View course details in MyPlan: M E 549 M E 550 Nonlinear Optimal Control (3) Calculus of variations for dynamical systems, definition of the dynamic optimization problem, constraints and Lagrange multipliers, the Pontryagin Maximum Principle, necessary conditions for optimality, the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation, singular arc problems, computational techniques for solution of the necessary conditions. Offered: jointly with A A 550/E E 550. View course details in MyPlan: M E 550 M E 551 Elasticity I: Elastostatics (3) Taya Elastostatics, including general formulations of 2D and 3D elastostatic problems (stress function method, complex variable method, displacement potential method). Eshelby's method is emphasized and used to solve 2D and 3D problems with special application to composite materials. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: M E 551 M E 552 Viscoelasticity and Plasticity (3) Taya Covers viscoelasticity, including the stress-strain equations in terms of convolution integral, Fourier transform, and Laplace transform modes. Plasticity focuses on generalized plastic behavior. View course details in MyPlan: M E 552 M E 553 Adhesion Mechanics (3) Introduction to adhesive systems and test/evaluation techniques. Stress/strain analysis methods used with adhesive joints. Examples of practical applications. Prerequisite: graduate student status or permission of instructor. Instructors: Tuttle Offered: Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: M E 553 M E 555 Thermoelasticity (3) Basic equations of thermoelasticity for isotropic elastic solids. Analysis of disks, cylinders, spheres, beams, and plates under steady temperature and sudden and slow heating and cooling. Introduction to thermoelastic stability. Prerequisite: M E 551 or permission of instructor. Instructors: Emery View course details in MyPlan: M E 555 M E 556 Experimental Stress Analysis I (3) Theory and practice of experimental techniques including strain gages and strain gage-based devices, thermocouples, LVDTs, and transducer design. Lecture and laboratory. Prerequisite: graduate standing or permission of instructor. Instructors: Tuttle Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 556 M E 557 Experimental Stress Analysis II (3) Theory and practice of optical mechanics, including interferometric techniques (moire and holographic), geometric moir methods, and photoelasticity. Lecture and laboratory. Prerequisite: graduate standing or permission of instructor. Instructors: Tuttle Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: M E 557 M E 559 Introduction to Fracture Mechanics (3) Ramulu Applications of linear fracture mechanics to failure analysis and fracture control based on actual case studies. Fracture toughness and fatigue testing techniques, crack initiation, and propagation fatigue life prediction of mechanical components subjected to environmental effects. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: M E 559 M E 561 Mechanics of Thin Films (3) Wang Provides an overview of the thin film deposition processes; the stress and microstructure development during film growth; the mechanisms of adhesion; delamination and fracture; and the state-of-the-art characterization techniques for the microstructure and mechanical properties of thin films, coatings, and nanomaterials. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 561 M E 562 Introduction to Electronic Composites (3) Taya Fundamentals of microstructure-macro-property relation of electronic composites. This course covers applications (computers, laser packages, medical devices, MEMS, avionics), functions (mechanical, thermal, electromagnetic, and optical), microstructure-macro-property relations, processing issues, and modeling of electronic composites. Offered: jointly with MSE 562; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: M E 562 M E 563 Advanced Composites: Design and Manufacturing (3) Manufacturing and processing techniques of metal-, polymer-, and ceramic-matrix composites; design considerations related to manufacturing techniques; non-destructive testing of composite structures. Fiber-matrix interfacial features and interactions. Interfacial thermodynamics applied to selection of fiber-matrix combinations. Prerequisite: MSE 475 or M E 450 or equivalent by permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with MSE 563; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: M E 563 M E 564 Mechanical Engineering Analysis (3) Application of mathematical methods to the description and analysis of systems in mechanical engineering. Analogies in heat transfer, fluid flow, stress distribution, dynamics, and feedback control. Prerequisite: graduate standing in mechanical engineering or permission of instructor. Instructors: Storti Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 564 M E 565 Mechanical Engineering Analysis (3) Applications of vectors, matrices, and partial differential equations to mechanical engineering systems, including computational techniques and analogies. Prerequisite: graduate standing in mechanical engineering or permission of instructor. Instructors: Storti Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: M E 565 M E 567 Micro- and Nanostructured Biosensors (3) Focuses on biosensors based on micromachining and nanotechnology. The working principles on molecular detection and analysis are introduced with the fabrication process, system integration and evaluation. Helps students to classify biosensors detecting molecules, design the fabrication process and identify the evaluation methods. Offered: jointly with MOLENG 567; W. View course details in MyPlan: M E 567 M E 568 Active and Sensing Materials (3) Taya Fundamental knowledge of the nano-structure property relations of active and sensing materials, and their devices. Examples of the active and sensing materials include: shape memory alloys (SMAs), ferromagnetic SMAs, ferroelectric, pyroelectric and piezoelectric materials, thermoelectrics, electroactive and conducting polymers, photoactive polymers, photovoltaics, and electrochromic materials. Offered: jointly with MSE 568; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: M E 568 M E 572 Methodologies for Engineering Design: Conceptual Design (3) Methodologies particularly useful in the conceptual or preliminary phase of a design. The design process. Impact of formulating independent functional requirements. Physical and functional coupling in design. Case studies in conceptual design of products and processes. Prerequisite: graduate standing or permission of instructor. Instructors: Kumar Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: M E 572 M E 574 Introduction to Applied Parallel Computing for Engineers (3) D. Storti Utilization of GPU-based parallel computing for engineering applications. Basics of hardware and software for GPU-based parallel computing. Introduction to GPU programming, language extensions, and interfaces. Introduction to parallel methods for numerical analysis and digital design. Applications in imaging, inspection, and computer-aided design. Hands-on experience creating GPU-powered parallel applications. Prerequisite: Introductory computing; graduate standing or permission of instructor; recommended: Some introductory computing experience and graduate standing in engineering Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: M E 574 M E 578 Convex Optimization (4) Basics of convex analysis: Convex sets, functions, and optimization problems. Optimization theory: Least-squares, linear, quadratic, geometric and semidefinite programming. Convex modeling. Duality theory. Optimality and KKT conditions. Applications in signal processing, statistics, machine learning, control communications, and design of engineering systems. Prerequisite: A A 510, CHEM E 510, E E 510, or M E 510. Offered: jointly with A A 578/CSE 578/E E 578. View course details in MyPlan: M E 578 M E 580 Geometric Methods for Non-Linear Control Systems (3) Analysis and design of nonlinear control systems focusing on differential geometric methods. Topics include controllability, observability, feedback linearization, invariant distributions, and local coordinate transformations. Emphasis on systems evolving on Lie groups and linearly uncontrollable systems. Offered: jointly with A A 580/E E 580; Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: M E 580 M E 581 Digital Control System Design (4) Martin C Berg Digital control system design by classical methods. Discrete-time systems and the z-transform. Modeling sampled-data systems. Frequency response of discrete time systems and aliasing. Nyquist stability criterion and gain and phase margins. Discrete-time control law determination by direct z-plane root locus and loop shaping methods. Includes hands-on-with-hardware projects. Prerequisite: AA/EE 447 or ME 471. Offered: jointly with A A 581/E E 581; W. View course details in MyPlan: M E 581 M E 582 Introduction to Discrete Event Systems (3) Modeling DES with automata and Petri nets. Languages. State estimation and diagnostics. Control specifications. Feedback control. Dealing with uncontrollability and unobservability. Dealing with blocking. Timed automata and Petri nets. Prerequisite: A A 447/E E 447/ M E 471. Instructors: Berg Offered: jointly with A A 582/E E 582; Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: M E 582 M E 583 Nonlinear Control Systems (3) Analysis of nonlinear systems and nonlinear control system design. Phase plane analysis. Lyapunov stability analysis. Describing functions. Feedback linearization. Introduction to variable structure control. Prerequisite: A A 447/E E 447/M E 471. Offered: jointly with A A 583/E E 583. View course details in MyPlan: M E 583 M E 585 System Identification and Adaptive Control (3) Theory and methods of system identification and adaptive control. Identification of linear-in-parameter systems, using recursive LS and extended LS methods; model order selection. Indirect and direct adaptive control. Controller synthesis, transient and stability properties. Offered: jointly with A A 585/E E 585. View course details in MyPlan: M E 585 M E 586 Biology Inspired Robotics (3) S. Fuller Principles and practices for converting insights from biology into functioning robotic systems. Concepts vary from year to year and can include passive dynamic stability, soft and flexure-based robotics, model-free control, mechanical intelligence, and machine learning. Term project. Prerequisite: M E 373 or equivalent Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 586 M E 588 Dynamics and Vibrations (3) Variational techniques, Hamilton's principle, Lagrange's equations applied to dynamics of particles and rigid bodies. Vibration analysis of multi-degree-of-freedom and continuous systems. Prerequisite: graduate standing in engineering or permission of instructor. Instructors: Shen Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: M E 588 M E 589 Vibrations (3) Study of systems with nonlinear damping and restoring forces excited by deterministic or random inputs. Applications in measurement, testing, and design of mechanical systems. Nonlinear systems are emphasized. Prerequisite: M E 588 or permission of instructor. Instructors: Storti Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: M E 589 M E 591 Robotics and Control Systems Colloquium (1, max. 30) Colloquium on current topics in robotics and control systems analysis and design. Topics presented by invited speakers as well as on-campus speakers. Emphasis on the cross-disciplinary nature of robotics and control systems. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with A A 591/CHEM E 591/E E 591. View course details in MyPlan: M E 591 M E 592 Mechatronics Master's Project (1-6, max. 9) Santosh Devasia, Joseph L Garbini, Sawyer Buckminster Fuller Special project in mechatronics and robotics research areas under the supervision of a faculty member. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: M E 592 M E 593 Feedforward Control (3) Design feedforward controllers for precision output tracking; inversion-based control of non-minimum-phase systems; effect of plant uncertainty on feedforward control; design of feedforward controllers for applications such as vertical take off and landing aircraft, flexible structures and piezo-actuators. Prerequisite: A A 547/E E 547/M E 547. Instructors: Devasia Offered: jointly with A A 593/E E 593; Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: M E 593 M E 594 Robust Control (3) Basic foundations of linear analysis and control theory, model realization and reduction, balanced realization and truncation, stabilization problem, coprime factorizations, Youla parameterization, matrix inequalities, H-infinity and H2 control, KYP lemma, uncertain systems, robust H2, integral quadratic constraints, linear parameter varying synthesis, applications of robust control. Prerequisite: A A 547/E E 547/M E 547. Offered: jointly with A A 594/E E 594; Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: M E 594 M E 597 Networked Dynamics Systems (3) Provides an overview of graph-theoretic techniques that are instrumental for studying dynamic systems that coordinate their states over a signal-exchange network. Topics include network models, network properties, dynamics over networks, formation control, biological networks, observability, controllability, and performance measures over networks. Prerequisite: A A 547/E E 547/M E 547. Offered: jointly with A A 597/E E 597. View course details in MyPlan: M E 597 M E 598 Graduate Projects (1-6, max. 9) Graduate student special projects completed under the supervision of a faculty member. Maximum of 9 credits may be applied toward graduation. Prerequisite: Permission of faculty supervisor and graduate program coordinator Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: M E 598 M E 599 Special Topics (1-5, max. 18) Topics of current interest in Mechanical Engineering. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: M E 599 M E 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Written report required. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: M E 600 M E 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: M E 700 M E 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: M E 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022