Skip to site alert. Skip to content Eleanor and Lou Gehrig ALS Center in the Department of Neurology Contact Us Make a Gift Search About Us Patient Care Research Locations Appointments Telehealth Visits Available Due to COVID-19 precautions, video visits using Epic & Zoom are available for new and existing patie Telehealth Visits Available Expertise You Can Trust Expertise You Can Trust Groundbreaking ALS Research Groundbreaking ALS Research Patients What is ALS? New Patient Information Clinical Services Support Groups International Patients Online Resources Faculty and Staff Our Team Join Our Team Contact Locations Research Clinical Trials Call 212-305-6788 for an appointment or referral 212-305-6788 Upcoming Events There are currently no upcoming events. View All Events News Wings Over Wall Street Honors Dr. Neil Shneider with Diamond Award August 7, 2019 Wings over Wall Street gala for the MDA research program on ALS honored Dr. Shneider with the Diamond Award. In recognition of his scientific leadership and dedication to the eradication of ALS. Today Show Interview With Dr. Neil Shneider Source: Today Show July 8, 2019 See Dr. Shneider's interview with Today show reflecting on the efforts to find a cure and treatments through the continued work of our team at the Columbia Eleanor & Lou Gehrig ALS Center. The ALS Association Launches Project Revoice January 5, 2019 Project Revoice aims to help those living with ALS with recording and recreating their natural voices for future use. Eleanor and Lou Gehrig Center Opens New Location in Tarrytown, NY March 2, 2018 We are excited to announce the opening of a new office location at Columbia Doctors located at 155 White Plains Rd, Tarrytown, NY 10591. View All News Message from the Director Welcome to the ALS Center The Eleanor and Lou Gehrig ALS Center at Columbia University provides comprehensive care, education, and support for patients and families living with ALS. Message from the Director Support the Eleanor and Lou Gehrig ALS Center Your gift will help fund clinical, education, and research efforts on behalf of all patients with ALS Make a Gift Make a Gift What is ALS? Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is known as Lou Gehrig’s disease in the United States, named after the Yankee great who attended Columbia College from 1921 to 1923. Learn More Learn More Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Locations Make a Gift Patient Care Research Columbia University Irving Medical Center Eleanor and Lou Gehrig ALS Center 710 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top