Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Loan Office Repay your Loans Medical School Loan Borrowers Loan Office Medical School Loan Borrowers Medical students often face specific challenges when planning for loan repayment. The Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) offers dynamic online repayment tools and resources to help borrowers navigate those challenges. Account Access Stay on top of your accounts online. Visit https://heartland.ecsi.net/ to access your Institutional Loans and/or Perkins Loans. Be sure to update your contact info (especially email address). (School Code E7) Post-Graduation Monthly To-Do List October Select a repayment plan for your Stafford/PLUS Loans. Decide whether you would like to consolidate and combine your Perkins or LDS Loans with your Stafford/PLUS Loans. Consolidation allows you to roll these into one new loan that you can repay using one of the income-driven repayment plans. Late November After November 15th, complete and submit a Deferment Application for your Brown Institutional Loans. Complete your portion of the form and forward it to your residency program director. The director will need to complete the bottom portion of this form and return it to the Loan Office for processing. New paperwork must be submitted each year. Note: The Federal Perkins Loan program does not offer residency deferment. If you’ve borrowed a Perkins Loan, your repayment will begin in April. December The first payment is due on Stafford/PLUS Loans and must be sent to your federal loan servicer. January The first payment is due on January 1st for your Brown Institutional Loans and must be sent to the Loan Office, unless you have completed our residency deferment process above. Visit https://heartland.ecsi.net/ to review your loans and make payments online. March If you borrowed a Federal Perkins Loan, plan for repayment to begin next month. If you wish to consolidate or apply for forbearance, begin the process now. April The first payment is due on April 1st for your Perkins Loans and must be sent to the Loan Office, unless you have completed our forbearance process above. Visit https://heartland.ecsi.net/ to review your loans and make payments online. On-Going You must plan on reapplying if you wish to extend a deferment or forbearance. The deferments and forbearances are typically granted for 6 to 12 months at a time. (Ex: The Medical Loan offers 36 months of residency deferment. If your initial residency deferment is granted for 12 months, you will need to complete the entire deferment process again next October.) Home About Before You Borrow Leaving Brown & Exit Counseling Repay your Loans Grace Period Repay Your Federal Direct Loans Repay Your Federal Perkins and Brown University Institutional Loans Understanding Interest Loan Consolidation Avoiding Default Deferment & Forbearance Cancellation & Forgiveness Tax Information Medical School Loan Borrowers 1098-E Student Loan Interest - Tax Information Employee Programs News Code of Conduct Print this Page Share this Page Loan Office Brown University Box 1950 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3296 Fax 401-863-7518 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Bursar's Office Cashier's Office Financial Services Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Medical