Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Architecture About Programs Community Engagement Faculty + Staff Alumni Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Accreditation Architecture Program Reports and Documents NAAB Current Conditions and Procedures for AccreditationNAAB Historical Conditions and ProceduresNAAB ReportsNAAB Student Performance CriteriaLetter of Continuing AccreditationLetter of Initial AccreditationMemphis 2020 Annual ReportMemphis 2020 Five Year ReportMemphis 2019 Annual ReportMemphis 2018 Annual ReportMemphis 2017 Annual ReportMemphis 2017 Interim Progress ReportMemphis 2016 Annual ReportMemphis 2015 Annual ReportMemphis 2014 Annual ReportMemphis 2013 Annual ReportMemphis 2012 Annual ReportMemphis 2011 Annual ReportMemphis 2011 Annual Report SupplementNAAB Response to 2011 Annual ReportMemphis 2010 Annual ReportNAAB Response to 2010 Annual ReportMemphis 2014 Architecture Program Report (APR)Memphis 2012 Architecture Program Report (APR)Memphis 2009 Architecture Program Report (APR)Memphis 2015 APR Visiting Team ReportMemphis 2012 APR Visiting Team ReportMemphis 2010 APR Visiting Team Report Interior Architecture What is CIDA Accreditation?Council for Interior Design Accreditation (CIDA)CIDA Professional StandardsCouncil for Interior Design Qualification (CIDQ)CIDA Public Disclosure Statement Program Reports and Documents 2020 CIDA Institutional Data2019 CIDA Institutional Data2018 CIDA Institutional Data2017 CIDA Institutional Data Take Action Resources News + Events Architecture Gallery Accreditation Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutube Home Department of Architecture Accreditation Architecture Accreditation The University of Memphis offers the professional Master of Architecture (M.Arch) degree based on the national "4+2" model which consists of the pre-professional Bachelor of Fine Arts in Architecture degree and the professional M.Arch degree. The M.Arch degree is accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB). The BFA in Architecture is a pre-professional degree and is therefore not accredited by the NAAB. Please see below for important information on accreditation. In the United States, most registration boards require a degree from an accredited professional degree program as a prerequisite for licensure. The National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB), which is the sole agency authorized to accredit professional degree programs in architecture offered by institutions with U.S. regional accreditation, recognizes three types of degrees: the Bachelor of Architecture, the Master of Architecture, and the Doctor of Architecture. A program may be granted an eight-year, three-year, or two-year term of accreditation, depending on the extent of its conformance with established educational standards. Doctor of Architecture and Master of Architecture degree programs may require a pre-professional undergraduate degree in architecture for admission. However, the pre-professional degree is not, by itself, recognized as an accredited degree. The University of Memphis, Department of Architecture, offers the following NAAB-accredited degree program: M.Arch. (pre-professional degree + 60 graduate credits). Initial Candidacy: 2008; Continuation of Candidacy: 2010; Initial Accreditation: 2012; Continuing Accreditation: 2015; Next accreditation visit: 2023. In order to meet the education requirement set forth by the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards (NCARB), an applicant for an NCARB Certificate must hold a professional degree in architecture from a program accredited by the NAAB; the degree must have been awarded not more than two years prior to initial accreditation. However, meeting the education requirement for the NCARB Certificate may not be equivalent to meeting the education requirement for registration in a specific jurisdiction. Please contact NCARB for more information. Interior Architecture Accreditation The University of Memphis offers the four-year professional Bachelor of Fine Arts degree with a major in Interior Architecture (formerly Interior Design). The program leading to the Bachelor of Fine Arts degree with a major in Interior Architecture is accredited by the Council for Interior Design Accreditation, www.accredit-id.org, 206 Grandville Avenue, Suite 350, Grand Rapids, MI, 49503. The CIDA-accredited degree program prepares students for entry-level interior design practice, for advanced study, and to apply for membership in professional interior design organizations. The Bachelor of Fine Arts degree with a major in Interior Architecture granted by the University of Memphis meets the educational requirement for eligibility to sit for the National Council for Interior Design Qualification Examination (NCIDQ Exam). For more information about NCIDQ Exam eligibility visit: https://www.cidq.org/eligibility-requirements. The UofM Interior Architecture degree was initially accredited in 2002 and granted continuing accreditation in 2008 and 2015. The next visit will be in 2021. The practice of interior design varies greatly from state to state. In Tennessee, interior design is regulated by a title act, not a practice act. This means that the use of the title Interior Designer is not regulated but rather the title Registered Interior Designer may only be used by individuals with the appropriate qualifications set by the Tennessee Board of Architectural and Engineering Examiners (A+E Board). For more information, contact the Council for Interior Design Qualification (CIDQ). NOTE: The BFA in Interior Architecture degree does not meet the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards (NCARB) educational standards for registration as an architect nor does it meet the educational standards of the A+E Board for registration as an architect in Tennessee. The term "Interior Architect" is not recognized by the A+E Board and may not be used in Tennessee. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/20/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.