About Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC TC About About Teachers College Creating a Smarter, Healthier & More Equitable World Our name notwithstanding, Teachers College was founded on the proposition that education alone can’t correct our society’s inequalities — that to maximize the life chances of all people, we must also support poorer communities’ physical and nutritional health and psychological wellbeing. Thus, fields such as education psychology, nursing education, nutrition education, special education, conflict resolution and spirituality and education were created at TC, and for more than a century we have prepared psychologists, nutritionists, health educators, speech pathologists and other professionals, as well as teachers and school leaders. Today, more than a third of our tenure track faculty are psychologists and health educators, and we continue to take a multidisciplinary approach, combining our strengths across fields to tackle the world’s most challenging problems. We offer more than 100 programs in our four core areas of expertise — education, health, psychology and leadership — and conduct research on topics that range from the impact of poverty on the brain to the legal basis for a Constitutional right to education; from hip-hop pedagogy to the revival of Inca languages in Latin American schools; from the study of motherhood as a developmental stage to the exploration of resilience in military veterans; from the impact of microaggressions on mental and physical wellbeing to language development in children on the autism spectrum; and so much more. When we speak of education, we mean education writ large — the study of how people learn, and how they should be taught, in all fields. And that, ultimately, is why we continue to proudly call ourselves…Teachers College. About Teachers College At a Glance Innovation History Leadership Discover Our Community At A Glance College Profile Degree Gender Diversity Domestic Students International Students Total enrollment: 5978 Excluding non-degree students: 5488 New Degree Students: 2482 International students: 1321 Innovation The Place for Visionary Thinkers Since our founding in the late 19th Century, Teachers College has drawn together visionaries who aspire to make the world a better place for all. Today our alumni network is 90,000 strong. These innovators span the globe, leading in every field at every level. As a student at TC, you will be inspired — and prepared — to follow their lead. Read our Annual Report to see our faculty and students making an impact at TC and beyond. History The Birthplace of Big Ideas Teachers College started in 1880 when philanthropist, Grace Dodge, created a school in Greenwich Village to teach sewing, cooking, and other practical arts to underserved immigrant women. Through her work, Dodge had realized that a new kind of pedagogy was in order—teaching that reflected an understanding of learners’ backgrounds and of how to present material in relevant, meaningful ways. By 1887, with the help of the Columbia University philosopher Nicholas Murray Butler, and with a site at West 120th Street donated by the industrialist George Vanderbilt, Dodge’s school had evolved into an entirely new kind of school devoted to teacher education. Read More Leadership Trustees Read More Railing outside of the Teachers College library. College Leadership Read More President's Website Teachers College Plaque Department Chairs Read More Iron Gate with the TC Shield Faculty Executive Committee Read More Wooden carving on a Teachers College door. President's Advisory Council Read More TC Building in Spring Alumni Council Read More Sunny day in the TC courtyard. Discover Our Community Strengthening Families, Schools, & Communities Diversity at Teachers College Our Extended Neighborhood Visit Campus Teachers College strives to establish an institution that actively attracts, supports, and retains diverse students, faculty, and staff, demonstrated through its commitment to social justice, its respectful and vibrant community, and its encouragement and support of each individual in the achievement of their full potential. Read More Our multicultural, urban environment impacts almost everything we do and provides unique educational and social opportunities found nowhere else. We also have deep ties with the local community. Many of our projects and offices work to directly impact our city, students, and educators. Read More Visit our campus to sample the learning and social environments we have designed for our students, faculty and staff. Each day brings new special lectures, colloquia, and workshops, which augment the multitude of academic offerings at Teachers College. The campus, and the great city of New York, provide opportunities for extraordinary experiences. Read More Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links