Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Applied Sociology PSM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Applied Sociology PSM Apply Request More Info Applied Sociology PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Professional Science Master's in Applied Sociology Become proficient in a range of social research methods with the Professional Science Master's in Applied Sociology in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. Examine social behaviors and environments according to several theoretical and practical approaches, with emphasis on statistical and data analysis. Develop the diverse skill set needed to perform applied research in public and private firms as well as government agencies. The 31-credit Applied Sociology PSM program, which is affiliated with the American Sociological Association, builds advanced training across a slate of core courses focused on data analysis, qualitative methods, research design, research ethics and statistics. Students are encouraged to participate in seminars in other social science disciplines, including anthropology; criminal justice; gender, sexuality and women’s studies; geography and urban studies; history; political science; and psychology. Program Format & Curriculum Students have three years to satisfy their requirements for the Applied Sociology PSM program, which can be completed on a full-time or part-time basis. Classes take place on Temple’s Main Campus. The 31-credit curriculum comprises core and elective courses. Core courses include the following. The Ethics of Social Research Graduate Data Analysis Inferential and Multivariate Statistics Logic of Inquiry Qualitative Data Analysis Qualitative Methods Learn more about Applied Sociology PSM program requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Sociology MA Sociology PhD Urban Bioethics MA and Sociology MA Urban Bioethics MA and Sociology PhD Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Professional Science Masters offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact With questions regarding the Applied Sociology PSM, contact the following staff member. Jessica Brennan is an administrator in the Sociology Department. Phone: 215-204-7577 Email: jessica.brennan@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Sociology Department. Dustin Kidd is the chair of the Sociology Department. Email: dkidd@temple.edu Josh Klugman is the graduate chair of the Sociology Department. Phone: 215-204-1452 Email: klugman@temple.edu Catherine Staples is a coordinator in the Sociology Department. Phone: 215-204-1494 Email: cstaples@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Applied Sociology PSM coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The Sociology Graduate Student Association represents and advocates for the collective interests of sociology graduate students, working to optimize the environment in which students develop professionally and personally. The association provides professional development workshops, social opportunities and graduate student advocacy. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-ASOC-PSM Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Applied Sociology PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info