Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Campus & Community : Health & Wellness Health & Wellness We know success goes hand in hand with health and wellness. That’s why The University of Texas at Austin makes the health and well-being of our entire university community a top priority. A broad range of on-campus resources are available and accessible around the clock to ensure that our students, faculty and staff stay physically healthy, emotionally well and prepared to change the world. University Health Services An accredited on-campus health care facility offering students general medicine, women's health, urgent care, sports medicine, allergy and immunization clinics, radiology, nutrition services and more. University Health Services also offers physical therapy and travel medicine services for faculty and staff. University Health Services 24-Hour Nurse Advice Line Health Promotion Resource Center Counseling and Mental Health Center Committed to serving UT Austin's diverse campus community, the Counseling and Mental Health Center provides counseling, psychiatric consultations and prevention services that facilitate students' academic and life goals and enhance their personal growth and well-being. Counseling and Mental Health Center Crisis Line Voices Against Violence Health Insurance Through The University of Texas System, UT Austin offers health insurance plans to eligible students, faculty and staff. Student Health Insurance Plan Faculty and Staff Insurance Plans Faculty and Staff Wellness Programs To keep UT Austin faculty and staff healthy, safe and thriving, Human Resources offers multiple wellness programs. Wellness Program Occupational Health Program Employee Assistance Program 24-Hour Nurseline for Employees with UT Select Recreational Sports Recreational Sports Fitness/Wellness Programs emphasize physical fitness and healthy lifestyle behavior by offering group exercise classes, clinics and series, personal training and more. Fitness and Wellness Overview Group Exercise Personal Training Latest Tweets Hogg Foundation for Mental Health HoggFoundation Today, and everyday, we honor those who served. #memorialday https://t.co/WjjwBBziFz 20 hs ago Reply2 Retweet Star Healthyhorns Healthyhorns Proactive Community Testing is available this week Tuesday through Friday! PCT is for UT students, faculty and sta… https://t.co/6yVBm9DOGK 20 hs ago Reply2 Retweet Star Healthyhorns Healthyhorns University Health Services, Counseling and Mental Health Center and the Longhorn Wellness Center are closed on Mond… https://t.co/x93YEHKD4T 1 d ago Reply2 Retweet Star Healthyhorns Healthyhorns Self-care doesn't have to take all day! On this #selfcaresaturday consider incorporating one or two of these five-m… https://t.co/ooeZBeIFPO 2 ds ago Reply2 Retweet Star Hogg Foundation for Mental Health HoggFoundation As we continue to mourn for the victims of the #Uvalde shooting, the survivor of another horrific shooting asks wha… https://t.co/tHu3iFGbvG 2 ds ago Reply2 Retweet StarView all tweets Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022