Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Home » UC News » Search Keyword Events Include Events (default) Exclude Events Only Show Events Only Show Past Events Only Show Upcoming Events Start Date End Date topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy units Select units Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Continuing Education Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources UCIT Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Author Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Michael Miller | Archives I'm a UC grad who worked as a newspaper reporter and covered the environment, the Statehouse and local news in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. I write about news and research in UC's College of Arts and Sciences and the College of Engineering and Applied Science. michael.miller3@uc.edu | 513-556-6757 520 Results Sort By: Newest First right arrow down arrow Newest First Oldest First Ohio recognizes UC's efforts to welcome veterans May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati this week was among the first universities to be recognized by Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine for its efforts to support students with military backgrounds. Who wants to go for a ride? May 27, 2022 When volunteers at the nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability in Xenia, Ohio, are looking for enrichment experiences for their puppies, they turn to a toy that has entertained millions of toddlers around the world. With sales of 500,000 per year, Little Tikes’ Cozy Coupe is considered the best-selling car in America. And it was the 1979 creation of a former University of Cincinnati industrial design student Jim Mariol. 6ABC: Light pollution can interfere with monarch migration May 26, 2022 National media highlight biology research in UC's College of Arts and Sciences that finds light pollution affects the navigation ability of monarch butterflies. How to give a hippo an ultrasound May 26, 2022 University of Cincinnati master's student Julie Barnes works as a veterinarian at the Cincinnati Zoo & Botanical Garden where she recently performed an ultrasound on a hippo. Silk layer improves function of surgical masks May 24, 2022 University of Cincinnati biologists found that a double layer of silk in combination with a surgical mask can enhance its ability to prevent the spread of viruses like COVID-19. WVXU: Scientists track next virus down to ZIP code May 23, 2022 UC College of Engineering and Applied Science professor Manish Kumar is working with Cincinnati Children's Hospital and the University of Dayton on new predictive models for tracking the spread of infectious diseases like COVID-19. Light pollution can disorient monarch butterflies May 23, 2022 Biologists at the University of Cincinnati say nighttime light pollution can interfere with the remarkable navigational abilities of monarchs, which travel as far as Canada to Mexico and back during their multigenerational migration. UC offers summer course on animal-inspired robotics May 23, 2022 The UC creators of Biology Meets Engineering are wrapping up a three-year National Science Foundation grant to develop and demonstrate a new curriculum drawing from both fields in UC’s College of Arts and Sciences and its College of Engineering and Applied Science. UC students take the class for course credit while faculty will offer a three-week course in June to introduce the concept to high school students. WVXU: Could this low-cost fix improve habitat in streams? May 11, 2022 WVXU highlights a demonstration project led by the University of Cincinnati to find low-cost ways to improve the health of urban streams. The project aims to increase biodiversity by providing more wildlife habitat. UC leads demonstration project to improve Ohio streams May 4, 2022 Biologists at the University of Cincinnati are studying low-cost ways to improve water quality and wildlife habitat in Greater Cincinnati’s creeks. UC biologists Stephen Matter and Michael Booth are examining whether water quality and wildlife habitat can be improved simply by adding logs and branches in select parts of the upper Cooper Creek. The addition of fallen timber could help slow periodic floodwaters, create more standing pools for fish during droughts and add nutrients for plants and fungus that support other aquatic life, researchers said. Co-op launched UC alumnus’ Intel career May 3, 2022 Intel vice president James Breisch got his start in computer engineering through UC's top-ranked co-op program. WLWT: UC graduates largest class ever May 2, 2022 UC celebrates largest graduating class in its 200-year history in two-day commencement. Record number of UC graduates celebrate commencement April 30, 2022 UC recognizes a record-number of graduates at its spring 2022 commencement Friday and Saturday at Fifth Third Arena. UC to celebrate record-breaking class at spring commencement April 25, 2022 The University of Cincinnati will recognize a record 7,080 graduates at its spring commencement during four ceremonies on Friday and Saturday at Fifth Third Arena. UC to award honorary degree to 'technology trailblazer' April 22, 2022 UC will confer a Doctor of Commercial Science honoris causa to Lori A. Beer, global chief information officer for JPMorgan Chase & Co. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top