Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU Newsroom Search Topics For The Media Archives Contact Us Select Web or PeopleWebPeople Search Newsroom: Topics For The Media Archives Contact Us Newsroom Texas A&M University at Galveston Hosting Open Dock Party May 9, 2022 Share Tweet Cadets depart for Summer Sea Term onboard the training ship, TS Kennedy. By Rebecca Watts, Director GALVESTON, TX: Texas A&M University at Galveston invites the public to celebrate the departure of Texas A&M Maritime Academy cadets with two days of free festivities during Memorial Day weekend. Participants can tour the training ship, interact with sea life, meet cadets, and join in a flotilla to escort cadets, faculty and crew out of the Galveston Ship Channel. Activities include: Tours of the 540 ft training ship the TS Kennedy Tours of the Sea Life Facility Face Painting Yard Games Ice Cream Flotilla And more! Dock Party festivities will take place on the west side of the Galveston Campus alongside the campus dock on Saturday, May 28, from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Guests should arrive early to secure tour time slots for both the TS Kennedy and the Sea Life Facility. Close-toe shoes are required to tour the TS Kennedy. The Sail Away Flotilla will take place on Sunday, May 29, at 9 a.m. Boaters may gather at the Pelican Island Bridge and follow the TS Kennedy through the Galveston Ship Channel. Launching, recovering and docking at the Galveston Campus dock is prohibited. The academy is expected to depart the Galveston Campus dock at 9 a.m. However, factors beyond the control of Texas A&M University-Galveston may influence the date and time of the flotilla. If inclement weather forces cancelation, notice will be provided online and through social media (@texasmaritime). Summer Sea Term Dock Party When: Saturday, May 28, from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Where: Texas A&M University at Galveston Who: Open to the public Cost: Free Parking: Paid ($2.00 per hour up to three hours) More information: https://calendar.tamug.edu/event/236-sst-22-dock-party Sail Away Flotilla When: Sunday, May 29, from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. Where: Galveston Ship Channel; starting from the Pelican Island Bridge Who: Open to the public Cost: Free More information: https://calendar.tamug.edu/event/241-sst-22-flotilla Launching, recovering and docking at the Galveston Campus Dock is prohibited. Details beyond the control of Texas A&M University at Galveston may influence the date and time of the flotilla. Plan to be flexible. If inclement weather forces cancelation, notice will be provided online and through social media (@texasmaritime) no later than 6 a.m. Sunday, May 29. Additional Information: At-sea training is critical in educating the future generation of merchant mariners who support our national security through service in the armed forces and the maritime industry, which is a crucial contributor to the economic prosperity of Texas and the nation. The Texas A&M Maritime Academy is one of six state maritime academies in the country and is the only one in the Gulf Coast region. ###Media contact: Rebecca Watts, Director Division of Marketing and Communications 409-740-4840/979-229-0902 rwatts@tamug.edu More: Read more about Marine Engineering Technology Read more about Maritime Transportation Read more about Texas A&M Maritime Academy COVID-19 Social Media Share Buttons Follow Us TAMUG FacebookTAMUG Twitter TAMUG Instagram TAMUG LinkedIn TAMUG Youtube Texas A&M University at Galveston is an ocean-oriented branch campus of Texas A&M University which educates nearly 2,300 undergraduate and graduate students in a unique blend of marine and maritime programs, including majors in science, business, engineering, liberal arts, and transportation. It is driving the development of the blue economy in the Gulf Coast Region and is a critical contributor to Texas A&M’s sea-grant portion of Texas A&M’s rare land-, sea-, space-grant mission with nearly $10 million in research expenditures. Texas A&M-Galveston is also home to the Texas A&M Maritime Academy, one of seven in the U.S. and the only academy integrated into a Tier 1 academic institution, which trains over 400 cadets annually for maritime service and employment around the world. Texas A&M-Galveston is ideally located in Galveston, Texas on the Gulf Coast where is it surrounded by the industry, environment and programs essential to fulfilling its special-purpose mission. Aggies are known for their deep commitment to the success of each other and their strong desire to serve. If you are interested in supporting this endeavor or research, please contact the Texas A&M University at Galveston Office of Development by email at GiveToSeaAggies@txamfoundation.com or by calling (409) 740-4481. © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675, Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway, Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road, Galveston, TX 77554 Site Policies Back to top