Skip to main content Skip to main navigation SearchMenu Baylor>Search Find Site By A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Websites starting with 'U': U.S. Army-Baylor Master's Program in Nutrition Welcome to the U.S. Military-Baylor Master's Program in Nutrition and the U.S. Military Dietetic Internship Consortium homepage. These programs work in tandem to train future military dietitians for service in the United States Army and United States Air Force. These programs are separately accredited but jointly administered over a two year period that results in a Master of Science in Nutrition and the ability to sit for the Registration Examination for Dietitians for qualified graduates. Students do not pay any tuition or relocation fees for these programs and earn a full salary with benefits. U.S. Army-Baylor Sports PT, West Point Mission: To train and educate specialized military physical therapists to be leaders in evidence-based sports therapy, clinical excellence, and military-relevant sports medicine research. Undergraduate Admissions Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 16,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas and welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 80 countries. Undergraduate Admissions - Why Baylor The Baylor Family has rallied together to share how much they want you here at Baylor. Take a look around, sit in a mock lecture, experience campus life and see the Baylor difference from the comfort of your home. Undergraduate Catalog The undergraduate course catalog for Baylor University. Undergraduate Research and Scholarly Achievement (URSA) The Undergraduate Research and Scholarly Achievement (URSA) initiative at Baylor welcomes all undergraduates, from freshman to senior, to consider maximizing their education through a variety of research and scholarly activities found both within the classroom and beyond. Unified Advising System United Way Campaign With the participation of every faculty and staff member, Baylor University will continue to maintain its role in the support of our community through the 2018 United Way Campaign. University Advancement The Office of Advancement’s purpose is to provide opportunities for our Baylor Family to support and engage with Baylor, both through giving to the University and in connecting with their alma mater through our Baylor Alumni program. University Advisement University Advisement offers services designed to help students fulfill their academic goals and potential. In addition to selecting classes, professional advisers assist students with reviewing degree audits, finding a major, developing academic plans, and clarifying personal goals. Advisers and mentors connect students with resources on campus and beyond that can facilitate them in making important life decisions. University Calendar Baylor University's combined calendar of events includes the academic calendar, lectures and conferences, athletic events, performing arts & exhibits, alumni & parent events, open houses and more. University Committees This site provides detailed information about each standing committee at Baylor University. Each committee page contains a description, roster, links to annual reports, and contact information. University Compliance and Risk Services University Compliance and Risk Services assists with managing and coordinating Board and University policies and procedures as well as managing other elements of a strong corporate governance structure that include an effective risk management office, a comprehensive enterprise risk management program, a strong internal audit function, a well-established institutional conflicts of interest process, and an incident management system (EthicsPoint). University Compliance and Risk Services also manages the university’s Minors on Campus program. University Marketing & Brand Strategy The University Marketing and Brand Strategy Team works across the University to identify communications needs and plan and implement integrated communication strategies that are consistent with and supportive of the Baylor brand and meet the diverse needs of our partners. We are a team of communication professionals with a variety of skills and experiences that engages the full breadth of communication tools to advance the mission of Baylor University. University Needs The value of a Baylor education is derived from the educational experiences that occur both inside and outside the classroom. Join efforts to enhance a broad range of initiatives to extend the mission of the University. University Scholars The University Scholars Program is designed for very bright, creative, and self-motivated students who wish to become better read, to devote themselves to the liberal arts, and to express their creativity by participating in a program that includes a component of self-expression. University Sustainability In accordance with its Christian mission and vision, Baylor University strives to be a community that fulfills its calling as stewards of God's gift of creation. Here you will find the latest news about sustainability efforts around campus, as well as resources to help you instill ecologically-friendly practices at work, on-campus, and at home. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678