Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Classics Ph.D. school Graduate School department Classics Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location Classics doctoral students have the opportunity to enrich their knowledge of many aspects of Greek and Latin literature, history and culture, as well as related fields, such as Sanskrit, archaeology and epigraphy. Classics at Brown covers the range of ancient studies, with strengths in classical literature, ancient history, philosophy, religion and linguistics. Additional work is available in religious studies, history of science and comparative literature, as well as in classical archaeology at the Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World. The program in Classics and Sanskrit offers courses in Sanskrit grammar, literature, philosophy, linguistics and religion. (Due to faculty retirement, no students will be admitted into the Sanskrit doctoral track until a replacement is appointed.) The Ancient History track is currently paused and not accepting applications as it undergoes restructuring; students with a strong language focus in Ancient Greek and Latin may still apply directly to Classics. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Additional Requirements: Greek and Latin: Completion of a substantial number of courses with honor grades. Writing sample required. Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline January 1, 2022 Completion Requirements Minimum of sixteen courses, including at least two seminars in Greek, Latin or classics; competence in French or German; thesis based on an original investigation of some literary, historical, archaeological or linguistic topic. The A.M. in classics is available for students already working toward the Ph.D. in cognate programs at Brown; however, we do not admit directly into a master’s program. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Graham Oliver graham_oliver@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Stephen Kidd stephen_e_kidd@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Classics Location Address 48 College Street Providence, RI 02912 Mailing Address Brown University Box 1856 48 College Street Providence, RI 02912 Classics_Department@brown.edu (401) 863-1267 Visit the Department of Classics Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Related Academic Areas Joukowsky Institute Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Classics Open details for Classics Bookmark this Page