Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Senior Living Management, BS Create Meaningful Experiences in Senior Living and Continuous Care Communities Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) Rosen College of Hospitality Management Department(s) Hospitality Services 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Serve an Active Senior Population Through Shaping and Supporting Diverse Lifestyles The BS in Senior Living Management is an interdisciplinary program that merges hospitality, gerontology and healthcare services. Your core courses will cover each of these areas, and you’ll have the opportunity to take what you learn in the classroom and apply it to the real world through diverse internships. Experience and learn hospitality culture and spirits, and grow your managerial and leadership capabilities to succeed in the senior living industry as a future leader. This program is brand new and there are only a handful of programs with senior living management in the nation. It is generously supported by the senior living industry with scholarships, work and networking opportunities. Plus, our central location in Orlando, Florida, places you in the hub of the senior living industry. Offering convenience and flexibility, complete your senior living management degree fully online or on campus. The senior living management program prepares you for a managerial or executive position in the exponentially growing senior living industry. Composed of thousands of for-profit and not-for-profit senior living communities, the industry encompasses independent living communities, assisted living communities, continuing care retirement communities and skill nursing. The modern senior living industry is a combination of 66% hospitality services and 33% healthcare services. The demand for qualified managers is extremely high and the salaries and working conditions are significantly greater than in most other industries, including hospitality and tourism. Highlights First degree program of its kinds that incorporates hospitality, healthcare management and aging studies. Oversee residents’ healthcare and housing needs and create dynamic experiences that surpass what’s available in traditional retirement communities. The job outlook for community managers is projected to grow by 17% through 2029. Community managers make an average of $67,000 annually. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Introduction to Hospitality and Senior Living Industries Get an orientation to the hospitality and senior living industries and their history, structure operating procedures, growth and future direction. Health Care Needs of the Elderly Gain an overview of the physical and emotional needs of the elderly, including the institutional healthcare available. Leadership and Strategic Management in Hospitality and Senior Living Industry Explore principles of leadership and strategic management in hospitality and senior living organizations; lecture, discussion, case analysis, scenario analysis, self-assessment, papers and presentations. View All Senior Living Management Courses You’ll Take Our senior living management program offers students a one-stop opportunity to the huge senior living industry with clear managerial career paths, excellent financial rewards and great service contributions to senior well-being. Its location in Orlando, FL, is an unparalleled advantage to access the hub of the senior living industry.” — Nan Hua, chair for the Department of Hospitality Services at UCF Rosen College of Hospitality Management Senior Living Management Skills You’ll Learn Gain a broad set of knowledge, hands-on experiences and cultural touches in hospitality management, aging studies and health management. Combine hospitality and health management in the hub of the senior living industry: Orlando, Florida. Acquire a managerial position in various types of senior living facilities, especially independent living, assisted living and continuous care retirement communities. Career Opportunities Activity and Event Director Director of Admissions Director of Dining Director of Resident Programs Operations Manager Marketing Manager Rosen College of Hospitality Management News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Turning Events into Careers UCF’s new master’s program in event leadership will bring a world of experience to the epicenter of this fast-growing industry. Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Medical Grad Putting Service at Forefront in Medicine As part of the UCF College of Medicine’s 10th graduating class, Michael Chiang ’20MS is the first Knight to earn a dual degree in medicine and… Science & Technology New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and… Colleges & Campus Knights Do That: Where Medicine and Hospitality Intersect Michael Chiang ’20MS, the first UCF student to graduate with a master’s in hospitality and a M.D. in emergency medicine, shares how he plans to… Degree Search Rosen College of Hospitality Management programs Bachelors Senior Living Management (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies × The Bachelor of Science degree in Senior Living Management is an interdisciplinary program that merges hospitality, gerontology and healthcare services. It will provide undergraduate students with the appropriate competitive skillset to acquire a managerial position in various types of senior living facilities, especially independent living, assisted living and continuous care retirement communities. It will provide a career path for students seeking employment in the senior living industry as business practitioners as opposed to that of direct care giver. The aim of this educational program is for UCF graduates to become the future managers and leaders of the senior living industry. Senior Living Management (BS) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. Click here for more information about the online program. Online Senior Living Management, BS Degree Requirements Hospitality Core 42 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: HFT3005 - Introduction to Hospitality and Senior Living Industries (3) HFT3540 - Guest Services Management I (3) HFT2401 - Hospitality Industry Financial Accounting (3) HFT3431 - Hospitality Industry Managerial Accounting (3) HFT2500 - Hospitality and Tourism Marketing (3) HFT2220 - Hospitality Human Resources Management (3) HFT3224 - Hospitality Management & Leadership Fundamentals (3) HFT4286 - Hospitality Communications (3) Complete the following: HSC4564 - Health Care Needs of the Elderly (3) HSA4191 - Fundamentals of Health Information Technology (3) HSA3170 - Health Care Finance (3) HSC4652 - Health Law and Ethics (3) HSA3430 - Health Care Economics (3) GEY3001 - Gerontology: An Interdisciplinary Overview (3) Senior Living Core 16 Total Credits Complete the following: HFT2254 - Lodging Operations (3) HFT3357 - Sport and Club Event Operations (3) FSS3232C - Foodservice Operations Management (3) HUN3013 - Nutrition Concepts and Issues in the Food Service Industry (3) FSS2221C - Techniques of Food Preparation (4) Internship 3 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 1 credits from the following: HFT3940 - Internship I (1 - 99) Earn at least 1 credits from the following: HFT4941 - Internship II (1 - 99) Earn at least 1 credits from the following: HFT4944 - Internship III (1 - 99) Restricted Electives 6 Total Credits Complete at least 2 of the following: HSA4180 - Organization & Management for Health Agencies I (3) HIM4508C - Quality Management (3) PLA4530 - Legal Issues of the Elderly (3) SOW4645 - Social Services for the Elderly (3) DEP3464 - Psychology of Aging (3) HSA4003 - The Patient Experience from an Administrator's Perspective (3) FSS4135 - Corporate Contract and Managed Services Organizations (3) HFT4253 - Advanced Lodging Operations (3) HFT4274 - Resort Management (3) HFT4343 - Hospitality Facilities Management (3) HSC3537 - Medical Terminology (3) Capstone 3 Total Credits Complete the following: HFT4272 - Leadership and Strategic Management in Hospitality and Senior Living Industry (3) Grand Total Credits: 70 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida