Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Academic & Instructional Services Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search Academic & Instructional ServicesOpen main menu Close Open search News Administration Enrollment Back Enrollment Office of Admissions Financial Aid Office Academic Scheduling Office Registrar's Office Concurrent Enrollment Continuing Education USU Online Achievement Back Achievement Student Orientation & Transition Office of Student Retention & Completion Student Academic Support Student Support Services System Back System Academic Media Production Empowering Teaching Excellence Teaching & Learning Technologies Academic Testing Services Center for Innovative Design & Instruction Center for Student Analytics Classroom Technologies Disability Resource Center Faculty Awards Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU AIS is committed to student success by working across the USU System—serving and supporting students, faculty, and staff wherever they are located—to advance USU’s capacity and reputation to build, deliver, and support academic excellence (teaching and learning), with a focus on quality, accessibility, and innovation. AIS supports a student’s journey, from their first point of contact with USU and forward, helping them achieve their higher education goals. AIS staff are experts in their professional fields, assisting the university to achieve enrollment, student, and academic support success. Robert Wagner, Ph.D Vice President Enrollment Management Success Admissions Recruits, admits, and enrolls students who are the best fit for USU. Admissions Website Financial Aid Makes higher education financially possible by navigating federal financial aid, such as grants, loans, and work-study. Financial Aid Website Academic Scheduling Supports university instructors and administrators to create and maintain high-quality learning environments, and produces eLearning courseware. Academic Scheduling Registrar Assists in registration support, ensures accurate assessment and collection of tuition and fees, and maintains academic records. Registrar Website Concurrent Enrollment & Continuing Education Administers USU’s statewide concurrent enrollment program. Concurrent Website USU Online Provides an optimal online education to students by organizing course development, assessment, recruiting, and enrollment. USU Online Website Scholarships Provides Scholarship opportunities for incoming freshman, transfer students, undergrad and grad students, and outside of USU. Scholarship Website Student Money Management Center Provides free, confidential, one-on-one counseling sessions to USU students to assess where they are at financially and make plans for where they want to be. SMMC Website Student Achievement Collaborative The Student Achievement Collaborative is a joint effort by the Office of the Executive Vice President & Provost and Academic & Instructional Services to focus on the success of all students at Utah State University. A total of five Utah State University Offices make up this collaborative. Provide Organizational & Shared Resources Develop Innovative Strategies Focus on Retention & Completion Learn More About the Collaborative Student Orientation & Transition Provides all necessary support to ensure students transition to USU successfully. Orientation Website Student Retention & Completion Creates and offers campus leadership reliable data and student-focused programs to help students thrive academically, socially, and personally. Retention Website Student Academic Support Offers students tips, resouces, and direct academic support so that students can fulfill their academic potential. Academic Support Website Student Support Services Seeks to support disadvantaged students who have potential to meet the challenges of higher education by strengthening and developing their academic and self-management skills. SSS Website Career Design Center Helps students explore majors and careers, obtain a student job or internship, take tests and prepare for grad school, and suceed in lauching their career. Career Design Center Website University and Exploratory Advising Provides major exploration, academic advisor training, peer advising, and associate degree support. Advising Website System Success Academic Media Production Provides USU instructors with the resources and professional staff they need to produce engaging, effective educational videos such as in-class lecture recording, documenting complex demonstrations, and high-quality voice overs. AMP Website Empowering Teaching Excellence The Office of Empowering Teaching Excellence elevates and promotes our culture of teaching excellence through events and programs that are open to all USU instructors, regardless of role statement or location. ETE Website Teaching & Learning Technologies Explores, develops, and supports innovations in the classroom and eLearning environments, building and maintaining USU’s teaching and learning ecosystem. TLT Website Academic Testing Services Assists students and faculty through online materials and a testing system committed to the highest standard of academic integrity. Testing Website Center for Innovative Design & Instruction Supports university instructors and administrators to create and maintain high-quality learning environments and produces eLearning courseware. CIDI Website Classroom Technologies Designs, installs, and maintains all Internet Video Conference (IVC) classrooms and conference rooms throughout the USU System. Classroom Website Disability Resource Center Works with individuals, faculty, and staff to ensure students with disabilities can fully participate in university programs, services, and activities. DRC Website Center for Student Analytics A service entity at Utah State University providing professional empowerment and opportunities for enhanced data literacy to other administrative units on campus. Analytics Website Recruitment Collaborative The Recruitment Collaborative is a joint effort by the Office of Admissions with Statewide Campuses and USU Online to unify recruitment efforts for prospective students. Resources include data, reports, CRM, guides, events, marketing, and more. Learn More About the Collaborative Recent News from AIS Read Story September 22, 2021 The LMS and LTI save the day during COVID-19, and not in the way you think. The Learning Management System (LMS) at Utah State University is playing a unique role during COVID-19, and even more now that fall semester is about to start. The Teaching and Learning Technologies team at USU has built four unique Learning Tools Interop... Read Story September 21, 2021 Incoming Students Surveyed on Preparedness, Expectations As part of student orientation this fall, incoming Utah State University students were given a survey link, with more than 2,200 students participating. Students were asked a variety of questions, including questions about their academic preparedness and ... Read Story September 21, 2021 Instructors unite for Pedagogies of Care at 8th Annual ETE Conference More than 400 instructors from across Utah State University departments, colleges and campuses participated in the eighth annual Empowering Teaching Excellence (ETE) conference, held virtually on Aug. 18. The conference was titled “Pedagogies of Care: Com... Academic and Instructional Services CONTACT AIS Distance Education Building - 4th Floor 5100 Old Main Hill Logan, UT 84322-5100 Newsletter Receive monthly updates about the impact AIS has across campus. Subscribe to AIS Newletter Subscribe Faculty Awards News 2020 Highlights Contact Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page