Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI) Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI) $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas RAA Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI) AAA Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI) Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI) The Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI Program) site offers web-based training in multiple areas of research compliance and ethics. CITI Program’s site includes courses in: animal subjects research human subjects research responsible conduct of research biosafety and biosecurity conflicts of interest export control information privacy and security CITI Program and ULearn are the two principal web platforms for online training courses at the University. CITI Program can now be accessed by University of Miami affiliates using their CaneID and password, in a process called “Single Sign On”. Access via the University of Miami Single Sign On is intended ONLY for University of Miami affiliates with valid CaneIDs. All others should go to www.citiprogram.org for login. LOGIN GUIDE Click on the “Login to CITI Program Using CaneID” button below The CaneID Authentication Service page will appear Enter your CaneID and Password and click on the “Sign In” button If you have forgotten your CaneID or Password, use the “Forgot…” links If this is the first time you have ever logged into CITI Program, a new CITI Program account is created for you. If you already have a CITI Program account, but have not previously used it for UM-related work, a new “affiliation” is created. If you already have a CITI Program account as a UM affiliate, the system will use your C-number to match you to that account. If you do not see the course you need, click on “Add or Update Learner Groups” in the University of Miami / Jackson Health System section of your CITI Program gradebook. This link is in the ‘My Learner Tools’ section of the gradebook. Login to CITI Program Using CaneID Contact Numbers for Assistance University Information Technology Help Line: (305) 284-6565 or (305) 243-5999 for general technical assistance with UM computer and network resources. CITI Program Help Desk: (305) 243-7970 for assistance with using the CITI Program website. University of Miami affiliates: For questions about required CITI Program training for University of Miami affiliates, please contact the organization related to your topic of study: Animal Care and Use – (305) 243-2311 Biosafety – (305) 243-9291 Disclosures & Conflict of Interest – (305) 243-4054 Export Control – (305) 243-9558 Human Subject Research Office – (305) 243-3195 Information Privacy and Security – (305) 243-5000 Responsible Conduct of Research – (305) 243-5723 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices