Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About About the UW Diversity Global Impact Innovation Leadership Maps Population Health Sustainability Visit Academics Academic calendar Academic departments Colleges and schools Course descriptions Registration Student guide Time schedule Apply Admissions Financial Aid Continuing education Majors Student housing Transfer students Tuition and fees Undocumented students UW Online News & Events UW News Featured stories Arts UW Calendar UW Magazine Husky sports Newsletter Research Office of Research Research Lifecycle Resources Collaboration Stats and rankings Campuses Bothell Seattle Tacoma Give Give now Ways to give My UW Giving Visitor Center Visit the UW Menu About About the UW Diversity Global Impact Innovation Leadership Maps Population Health Sustainability Visit Academics Academic calendar Academic departments Colleges and schools Course descriptions Registration Student guide Time schedule Apply Admissions Financial Aid Continuing education Majors Student housing Transfer students Tuition and fees Undocumented students UW Online News & Events UW News Featured stories Arts UW Calendar UW Magazine Husky sports Newsletter Research Office of Research Research Lifecycle Resources Collaboration Stats and rankings Campuses Bothell Seattle Tacoma Give Give now Ways to give My UW Giving Home Visit the UW Welcome to the University of Washington! We’re here to help you find the information you need. Whether you’re a prospective student, a UW alumni, a tourist or a Seattle local, connect with the Visitor Center to learn more about the UW. Before you stop by, please review our office policies here. Office hours: Monday-Friday, 9 a.m.-4p.m. Coronavirus FAQ | Campus tours | Parking | Commencement Info Visitor resources Getting to campus Eating on campus Parking on campus Learn about the UW Visitor Center Address: Odegaard Library: 022 Odegaard, Seattle, WA 98195-5502 (Find on campus map) Office hours: Monday-Friday, 9 a.m.-4p.m. Closed on UW Holidays. Phone: 206-543-9198 Email: uwvic@uw.edu Campus map Tours and information sessions Student-led tours Campus highlights guide General resources Future students Apply to the UW Living on campus Transfer Thursday Parents and families Learn more about our Parent & Family Programs! General visitors Learn more about some popular spots on and near campus! Public events calendar Accessibility Accessible parking, routes, building entrances and other accommodations Printable resources Campus map (PDF) Welcome Guide brochure (PDF) Campus accessibility map (PDF) UW Fast Facts (PDF) Other contacts UW offices and departments People finder Office finder Campus highlights Red Square Overlooking Rainier Vista, this large plaza connects the performing arts at Meany Hall with Odegaard and Suzzallo libraries, Henry Art Gallery and lecture rooms in Kane Hall. Odegaard Undergraduate Library In addition to offering research and writing services, Odegaard is home to By George Café. It’s also the only campus library that’s open 24 hours a day. The Liberal Arts Quadrangle (the Quad) The Quad is the primary gathering place on campus, especially when the Yoshino cherry trees bloom each spring. Denny Hall Built in 1895, Denny Hall is the oldest building on campus. Its copper-clad belfry contains the Varsity Bell, rung every year at Homecoming. Suzzallo Library The central library on campus, Suzzallo is renowned for its grand staircase and expansive Reading Room, known informally as “the Harry Potter Room.” Husky Union Building The HUB’s spaces were designed by students, for students. It’s all here, including study rooms, a bike shop, bowling alley, gaming lounge and restaurants. Drumheller Fountain The centerpiece of Rainier Vista, Drumheller Fountain was built to highlight our spectacular view of Mount Rainier. Sylvan Grove At the south end of this picturesque shady grove stand four columns — all that remains of the UW’s original campus in downtown Seattle. Husky Stadium With views of Lake Washington and the Cascade Mountains, Husky Stadium has been frequently voted the most scenic football setting in the U.S. UW Botanic Gardens Across the Montlake Bridge are the UW Botanic Gardens and Washington Park Arboretum, one of the oldest arboretums west of the Mississippi. From football to crew, the Dawgs run — and row — circles around the competition. Our Division I athletes host their rivals in the Pac-12 conference and beyond at Husky Stadium and nearby Athletics Village, as well as on the Montlake Cut. Husky Athletics Explore contemporary art at the Henry Art Gallery and Jacob Lawrence Gallery. Interact with natural and cultural collections at the Burke Museum. Or attend a performance at Meany Hall to enjoy dance, drama and music. Arts UW Visitor Center fun corner Hidden gems Campus critters Questions? We’re happy to help! Connect with us at uwvic@uw.edu or 206-543-9198. Note: Each photograph above was taken following the appropriate safety protocols at the time. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA