By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Admitted Housing More from this Section Syracuse Bound Deferral Request Veterans Syracuse Pathway Program HEOP & SSS Visit Opportunities FAQ Checklist Living Learning Communities Health and Wellness Requirements Dining & Meal Plans Expenses, Billing, & Payment Things to Consider Technology International Students Important Dates Discovery Program SummerStart Housing Information Approximately 70 percent of students live in Syracuse University housing. The University is partnering with My College Roomie, a user-friendly website that will provide you the opportunity to connect with fellow first-year students and possibly select a roommate before arriving on campus. First-Year Students You are required to live in University housing for your first two years of enrollment. You will be assigned to live in one of the residence halls on Main Campus . If your immediate family resides in the Syracuse area, you may commute. Please make note of this on the housing application. Transfer Students You are welcome to apply to reside in University housing unless you have a family (spouse/children) or plan to commute from the permanent home of your immediate family (parents/guardians). Housing for transfer students is located within South Campus apartments or Skyhalls on a space-available basis. Connect with Housing, Meal Plan and ID Card Services Accessing Your Housing Application Accept your offer of admission by submitting the Admission Acceptance Form and your advance tuition payment and advance housing payment (if you plan to apply for University housing) by the date specified in your letter of admission. Access your official Syracuse University email account. Complete your housing application once you have received an email from the Housing Office confirming your MySlice Student Services access to the housing application. Residential Facilities All residence halls are coeducational (coed) and include several floor plan configurations (coed by wing, by floor, or by alternating rooms). All residence halls have either single-gender shared bathrooms or individual private floor bathrooms. Residence hall rooms vary in size and living style, facilities, and room types: Open-double: A room shared with one roommate. Split-double: A room divided by a wall that is shared with one roommate. Four person suite: Two open double rooms with a common room designed for four students. Single: A room in which you have no roommate. Single rooms are available on a limited basis if available and have a higher room rate. The majority of first-year students will live in open- or split- double rooms. A limited number of students may be placed in suites or singles. All residence halls are: Conveniently located near dining centers Ready for direct connection to the campus computer network Wired for cable TV (all rooms) Served by AirOrangeX, the University’s wireless network Each residence hall uses an I.D. card swipe access system and is always locked. Only resident students and guests are allowed to enter the residence halls. Other safety features include Residential Community Security Officers at each main entrance 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and audible alarms at secondary exits that are locked at all times. Every residence hall is equipped with fire suppression sprinkler systems and smoke detectors in each student room and in all other areas of the facility. Learn more about your living options , and check out virtual tours of rooms. Commuters and Transfer Students Who do not Plan to Live in University Housing If your immediate family resides in the Syracuse area and you plan to commute from home, please check the appropriate box on the online Housing and Meal Plan Application. If you are not obligated to the University’s two-year, on-campus living requirement (new transfer students) and you plan to live off campus, please check the appropriate box on the online Housing and Meal Plan Application. You will receive an email to your Syracuse University account from the Housing, Meal Plan, and ID Card Service Center in August informing you when you will be able to access your My Housing page, which is where you can purchase a dining plan, as well as SUpercard FOOD and PLUS account options. The Office of Off-Campus and Commuter Services (OCCS) will provide you with support, information, and resource referrals throughout your off-campus housing experience. South Campus Living This area includes three residence halls ( Skyhalls ), as well as furnished apartments and townhouses. Transfer students live in the Skyhalls or apartments with other transfers or returning upper-class students. South Campus is located a mile from Main Campus. A shuttle bus runs to and from Main Campus and throughout South Campus approximately every 15 minutes. The apartments have full kitchens and therefore apartment residents are not required to be on a meal plan. Students need to supply their own cooking utensils and microwave ovens. The housing fee includes utilities, and all South Campus apartments remain open during semester break. A SUperfood plan is available for use at Goldstein Dining on South Campus. Residents may also purchase meal plans to use at Main Campus dining centers. South Campus residents enjoy many facilities: tennis courts, playing fields, the Tennity Ice Skating Pavilion , and the Goldstein Student Center , which has a dining facility, computer stations, a laundry room, a branch of the University Campus Store, a fitness center, the South Campus Housing and Residence Life Office, and a Public Safety Office. Living Learning Communities Living learning communities allow you to live and take classes with a group of students who share a common academic major or interest. Participation can help you develop skills and attitudes that support academic achievement; improve the quality of your thinking and communication skills; foster a better understanding of yourself and others; and balance your academic and social life. Not sure which living learning community is for you? Explore your many options or talk to a peer mentor about their living learning community experience. Roommates My College Roomie is a user-friendly website that will provide you the opportunity to connect with fellow first-year students and possibly select a roommate before arriving on campus. On My College Roomie, users create a profile for themselves, answer questions about their habits and hobbies, and select attributes to discover what they have in common with other new Syracuse students. To receive your email invitation to join My College Roomie, you must: Complete your Admissions Acceptance Form (AAF), accessible on MySlice. Submit any applicable advance payments as noted on your AAF. Complete the Housing Application, accessible on MySlice. Review the checklist for admitted students for more information. Students admitted for fall will have until late May 2022 to make a roommate selection. Keep in mind that as the spring goes on and more students commit to Syracuse, your pool of possible connections and roommates will grow. If you opt not to select your roommate, a roommate will be assigned to you by the Housing Office. You and your resident advisor will participate in setting floor standards. You and your roommate(s) will complete living agreements that help create a mutual understanding in sharing the same space. Housing Policies and Procedures By completing the online Housing and Meal Plan Application, you are expected to comply with the rules listed in the University’s Housing Agreement. The agreement is for the full academic year, although the room charge is paid by the semester. You are expected to live in the room from the end of August until the middle of May, except for during the academic recess between semesters. New students who are not required to live in housing may cancel housing arrangements until January 1, 2022 (spring 2022 applicants) or June 1, 2022 (fall 2022 applicants. After that date, your housing commitment is financially binding. Students who apply for on-campus housing by June 1 will receive their on-campus housing assignment and roommate information and roommate assignment in mid-July. Students who apply after June 1 risk a delay in notification of up to two weeks after initial assignments are sent. If you wish to select a learning community or interest housing option, make your request on the online Housing and Meal Plan Application. If you are not interested in a learning community, you will be assigned through the random housing assignment procedure. Accommodations will be reviewed by the Housing Office as they relate to health, religious, or cultural traditions. Please note this information where requested on the online application. Disability accommodations can be made to meet the needs of students who have disabilities. Please contact the Office of Disability Services by May 1 to discuss your needs. If you are a non-traditional or older student, you may prefer apartment living on South Campus. Please note this information where requested on the online application (special needs). The Housing Office confirms receipt of your information upon your completion of the online Housing and Meal Plan Application. Smoking is prohibited in all University housing facilities. Additionally, to help ensure a healthy, productive, respectful environment, Syracuse University is pleased to provide a smoke- and tobacco-free campus. Housing Rates View current housing costs for the 2021-2022 academic year. It is recommended that you use the cost of a split double room when budgeting for University housing. Contracts are for the academic year, consisting of fall and spring semesters. You will receive a statement of housing and meal plan charges from the bursar’s office. The first housing charge that you receive may be an estimate of housing costs. That cost may be adjusted if necessary. Related Pages Housing, Meal Plan, and I.D. Card Services With 21 residence halls, Syracuse University has accommodations to meet all of your residential needs. Office of Student Living Our professional and student staff work hard to bring you a great residential experience! Room Layouts and Furnishings Each residence hall room is furnished with a bed, desk, desk chair, dresser, and closet/wardrobe for each student. Housing Rates Take a peek at various residence halls and housing rates based on room type. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy