Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home Careers Careers Career Development Explore, prepare for, and pursue your career goals with advice and coaching from the iSchool Career Development Office. HireUTexas Meet the Career Development Team Katie Davidson Undergraduate Career Placement Specialist Contact Katie Students Find iSchool resources that support diverse career paths. Explore options and pursue on your career goals. Career Services Employers Connect with iSchool talent for jobs in data, user experience, library and information science. Connect with Us Alumni Stay involved with iSchool career events and connect with alumni, students and staff. Find career assistance as an alum on HireUTexas. Resources Upcoming Career Events No Events to display at this time. Where Will A Career in Information Take You? Graduates from the iSchool develop careers in almost every industry. The field of information is constantly and rapidly evolving. We educate and encourage our students to create new frontiers while preserving the past, managing the present and designing the future. Meet with your Career Advisor Employment data from 2021 icon-job.png 88% Accepted positions in Texas icon-salary.png $81,203 Average salary icon-time.png 88% Secured full-time employment Data source: Class of 2021 Employment Report View more employment data reports UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022