Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY Menu Search TTU About Texas Tech University Rankings Bragging Points & Rankings About Texas Tech U.S. RankingsProgram RankingsGlobal RankingsOnline Rankings Academic Texas Tech conferred nearly 9,000 degrees during the 2020-21 academic year. The university is home to 13 colleges and schools and offers more than 150 undergraduate degrees, 100 graduate degrees and 50 doctoral degrees. The Center for Measuring University Performance ranks Texas Tech No. 62 overall and No. 46 among public research institutions with 340 doctoral degrees conferred in 2019. That number was 382 during the 2020-21 academic year. In Newsweek's inaugural “Best Online Learning Schools 2022” list, Texas Tech ranked the No. 1 school for an online education. Texas Tech offers one of the best courses of study for students aspiring to become entrepreneurs, according to The Princeton Review® and Entrepreneur magazine. Texas Tech students have won numerous national championships, including more than 100 in the College of Agriculture Sciences and Natural Resources and more than 30 in the School of Law. Texas Tech has had 164 Fulbright Scholars selected from its faculty. Alumni Ed Whitacre (1964) is the only person to lead two Fortune Top 10 companies, as he was a long-time CEO of AT&T and served in the same role at General Motors. Susan Graham (1983) is an accomplished mezzo-soprano, who has performed in operas around the world. She also performed at President George W. Bush's second inauguration and Senator Edward Kennedy's funeral. Ginger Kerrick (1993) was the first Hispanic female NASA Flight Director. Space Shuttle Columbia commander Rick Husband (1980) is one of three astronauts to attend Texas Tech. Daniel I.J. Thornton (1932) of Colorado, John Burroughs (1929) of New Mexico, and Preston Smith (1934) of Texas all served their states as governor. Lauro Cavazos (1949, 51) was the first Hispanic Secretary of Education under Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush. His brother, Richard, is the U.S.'s first Hispanic four-star general and brother, Bobby, was a second-team All-American running back at Texas Tech. Angela Braley (1982), former President and CEO for WellPoint, Inc. Athletics Texas Tech boasts 17 athletic programs, including women's soccer, volleyball, basketball, golf, tennis, track & field, cross country, softball, and men's golf, tennis, basketball, track & field, cross country and football. The Red Raider football program ranks in the top 25 nationally all-time in bowl appearances. Two of the largest investments in the history of Texas Tech Athletics were made in 2021 and will lead to state-of-the-art facilities for the program. The baseball program has appeared in four College World Series, including three of the last five. Texas Tech is the only school to host an NCAA Regional every year since 2016 and to earn National Seed status in each of those five years. The Red Raiders have also won three of the last five Big 12 regular season titles. The men's outdoor track & field team brought home the program's first NCAA National Championship in 2019. That same year, the Red Raider basketball team made its first appearance in the National Championship and Final Four and Texas Tech baseball advanced to the College World Series for the fourth time in six years. The Lady Raiders women's basketball program brought home the 1993 NCAA National Championship. Sheryl Swoopes garnered National Player of the Year honors, while head coach Marsha Sharp was twice named National Coach of the Year. Both are now members of the Women's Basketball Hall of Fame. Texas Tech joined the Southwest Conference in 1956, following 24 years as a member of the Border Conference. The teams competed in the SWC until 1996, when the league merged with the Big Eight Conference to form the Big 12 Conference. Texas Tech began intercollegiate athletic competition in football, men's basketball and baseball during the inaugural academic year of classes in 1925-26. Campus Life More than 500 organizations are available to students. Everything from religious to service to Greek organizations and more offer ample opportunity for student involvement. Intramurals are active at Texas Tech and the facilities at which students participate are second-to-none. A model feature for many universities around the country, the Leisure Pool at the Student Recreation Center has often been cited as one of the top reasons students choose Texas Tech…in addition to the academic offerings, of course. Students are entertained throughout the academic year with concerts, movies, performances, and much more in the Allen Theatre in the Student Union Building. Events like the Presidential Lecture and Performance Series bring to campus the very best of local, national, and international talent, including Cheech Marin, Cokie Roberts, The Manhattan Transfer, and Garrison Keillor. The university strives to do its part in supporting and providing opportunities for military personnel, veterans, and their families. Texas Tech has received many accolades for its efforts, including being designated the first Purple Heart University in Texas. The Office of Military and Veterans Programs (MVP) plays an important role as a valuable resource. Enrollment Texas Tech has set enrollment records each of the last 13 years. With 40,666 students recorded in Fall 2021, the university continues to be one of the fastest-growing institutions of higher education in the U.S. in the last 10 years. Texas Tech has continued to raise the academic profile of its student body, aided by ever-increasing awards of scholarship support. More than 24% of incoming first-year students in 2021 finished in the top 10 of their high school class, a 6% increase over 2020. Texas Tech's growth over the last decade in ensuring opportunities for underrepresented students seeking a college degree has led to numerous designations and achievements. One of the most prestigious is being named a top university in the U.S. for diversity and inclusion efforts. For the 10th straight year, INSIGHT Into Diversity magazine has named Texas Tech a Higher Education Excellence in Diversity (HEED) winner, and for the sixth time Texas Tech was named a Diversity Champion. History When Texas Technological College was being established, among the locations for the campus were Lubbock, Floydada, Plainview, Big Spring and Sweetwater. When the doors opened in 1925, four schools composed the university – agriculture, engineering, home economics, and liberal arts. The establishment of the University was originally vetoed by the governor in 1921. The people of West Texas were so outraged, it was reported they recommended West Texas secede from the state. The University's name was changed to Texas Tech University in 1969. The award-winning Goin' Band from Raiderland was established in 1925, and it has been widely noted Will Rogers purchased uniforms for the band and financed its trip to Fort Worth, so the band could perform at a game against TCU. A great distinction of the Goin' Band is it's never lost a halftime. The National Ranching Heritage Center takes visitors back in time to the days of the covered wagon and life on the range. The NRHC features nearly 50 ranch buildings, some dating back to the 18th century. Visitors can view the exhibits through a self-guided walking tour. Research Texas Tech's research award value has reached the highest in university history at $91 million, and for the first time in school history, the total award value of Texas Tech's sponsored projects has surpassed $100 million, with a total of $105.2 million. Proposal submissions have continued to break records in 2021 with the highest proposal value on record at $583.2 million. Texas Tech's first National Academy of Sciences member, Dr. Luis Rafael Herrera-Estrella, is a world-renowned researcher in plant stress and cotton genomics. His hire was supported by a $5 million grant from the Governor's Research University Fund and a match by the university. The Innovation Hub at Research Park is a state-of-the-art center for innovation and entrepreneurialism. It supports the economic growth of the state and region fostering public-private partnership and providing a place for the campus entrepreneur community to learn and launch a startup. The Biological Threat Research Laboratory, a BSL-3 lab, is housed at The Institute for Environmental and Human Health at the former Reese Air Force Base and gives the university the ability to perform both basic and applied research related to biological agents and toxins that have the potential to impact human and animal health. The lab was the first in the state of Texas to begin testing samples for the novel coronavirus in February 2020. The WildWind Performance Lab in the School of Theatre & Dance focuses on more than performance and explores the processes, forms, ideas and techniques of performance. The lab gives students an opportunity to learn and grow by encouraging a different point of view toward theatre and dance and brings in nationally recognized guest artists to work directly with TTU theatre and dance students. Five National Academy of Engineering (NAE) members reside in the Whitacre College of Engineering. Membership in the NAE is one of the most distinguished honors engineering researchers and faculty can receive. The TrUE Scholars program supports first-year and current students through the entire continuum of Undergraduate Research and Creative Activities (URCA) during their time at Texas Tech. The program recruits, trains and launches talented students into marquee experiences designed to set them apart. U.S. Rankings #99 Top public universities in the U.S., per Niche, 2022. #107 Top public universities in the U.S., per U.S. News & World Report, 2022. #119 Top ranked universities in the U.S., per Center for World University Rankings, 2021. #127 Top ranked universities in the U.S., per U.S. News & World Report Global Rankings, 2022. #141 Top ranked universities in the U.S., per Shanghai Academic Ranking of World Universities, 2021. #163 Ranking among America's Top Colleges, per Forbes, 2021. #191 Top ranked universities in the U.S., per QS World Rankings, 2022. #213 National Universities, per U.S. News & World Report, 2022. #401 Times Higher Education Top Universities in the U.S., 2022. Best Value/Best Buy Rankings #1 Best College for the Money (with aid) in the Southwest, per CollegeFactual.com, 2021. #2 Ranking among Big 12 institutions in terms of return on investment, per Payscale.com, 2021. #17 Best College for the Money (all undergraduates) in the Southwest, per College Factual, 2022. #300 Best Value Colleges, per Niche, 2022. Global Rankings #423 Top ranked universities in the world, per Center for World University Rankings, 2022. #464 Top ranked universities in the world, per U.S. News & World Report Global Rankings, 2022. #501-600 Top Ranked Universities in the World, per Academic Ranking of World Universities (Shanghai), 2022. #601-800 Top Ranked Universities in the World, per Times Higher Education, 2022. #801-1000 Top ranked universities in the world, per QS World University Rankings, 2022. Program Rankings #1 Best Value ranking of Hospitality Management program, per College Factual, 2021. #1 Best Value rank of Information Science program, per College Factual, 2021. #1 Best Value rank of Music program, per College Factual, 2021. #1 Most Popular Human Development & Family Studies Schools in Texas, 2021. #2 Best Value rank of Human Development & Family Studies program, per College Factual, 2021. #2 Most Popular Human Development & Family Studies Schools in Texas, per College Factual, 2022. #3 Best Value ranking of Agricultural Economics and Business program, per College Factual, 2021. #3 Most Popular rank of Family, Consumer & Human Sciences program, per College Factual, 2022. #3 Most Popular ranking of General Family & Consumer Sciences program, per College Factual, 2021. #4 Highest paid graduates of Petroleum Engineering Program, per College Factual, 2021. #5 Best Value rank of Family, Consumer & Human Sciences program, per College Factual, 2020. #6 Best Value rank of General Family & Consumer Sciences program, per College Factual, 2021. #6 Best Value ranking of Engineering program, per College Factual, 2021. #6 Best Value ranking of English Language and Literature programs, per College Factual, 2021. #7 Best Value ranking of Civil Engineering program, per College Factual, 2021. #7 Best Value rank of History program, per College Factual, 2021. #7 Best Value ranking of Chemical Engineering program, per College Factual, 2021. #9 Best value ranking for General Architecture program, per College Factual, 2021. #9 Best Value ranking of Industrial Engineering program, per College Factual, 2021. #9 Best Value ranking of Animal Science Program, per College Factual, 2021. #9 Best Value ranking of Electrical Engineering program, per College Factual, 2021. #10 Best Value ranking of Mechanical Engineering program, per College Factual, 2021. #10 Best Value rank of Visual & Performing Arts program, per College Factual, 2021. #11 Best Petroleum Engineering program, per U.S. News & World Report, 2021. #12 Best Value ranking of Agriculture program, per College Factual, 2021. #12 Best undergraduate entrepreneurs, per The Princton Review®, 2022 #22 Top Ranked Family, Consumer & Human Sciences program, per College Factual, 2022. #24 Best Human Development & Family Studies Schools, per College Factual, 2022 #46 Best Public Relations & Advertising Schools, per College Factual, 2022. #86 Best Undergraduate Engineering Programs, by U.S. News & World Report, 2022. Online Rankings #1 Best Online Learning School, Newsweek, 2022. OnlineColleges.com #2 The Best Online Colleges in Texas, 2021. U.S. News & World Report #15 Best Online Master's in Special Education Programs, 2021. #17 Best Online Master's in Business Programs (Excluding MBA), 2021. #21 Best Online Master's in Engineering Programs, 2021. #36 Best Online Master's in Computer Information Technology Programs, 2021. #94 Best Online Bachelor's Programs for Veterans, 2021. #100 Best Online MBA Programs, 2021. #126 Best Online Master's in Education Programs, 2021. #164 Best Online Bachelor's Programs, 2021. TheBestSchools.org #2 Top 10 Online Colleges in Texas, 2021. #2 The Best Online Master's in Media Communications Degree Programs, 2021. OnlineU.com #21 Best Online Doctoral Degrees, 2021. BestColleges.com #4 Best Accredited Online Colleges in Texas, 2021. #7 Best Accredited Online Colleges & Top Online Universities, 2021. Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityDec 20, 2021 9:21 AM Texas Tech University Admissions Texas Tech University Admissions Back Undergraduate Texas Tech University Admissions Undergraduate Back First-time Students Transfer Students International Texas Tech - Costa Rica Other Admission Graduate Texas Tech University Admissions Graduate Back How to Apply Graduate Programs Available School of Law Texas Tech University Admissions School of Law Back Application Process Frequently Asked Questions Academics Texas Tech University Academics Back Majors & Colleges Texas Tech University Academics Majors & Colleges Back Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs School of Law Worldwide eLearning University Libraries Colleges & Schools Texas Tech University Academics Colleges & Schools Back College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources College of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Jerry S. Rawls College of Business Administration College of Education Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Honors College College of Human Sciences College of Media & Communication J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Graduate School School of Law School of Veterinary Medicine Research Alumni Texas Tech University Alumni Back Alumni Community Texas Tech University Alumni Alumni Community Back Texas Tech Alumni Association Institutional Advancement Texas Tech Red Raider Club Campus Life Texas Tech University Campus Life Back Campus Life Texas Tech University Campus Life Campus Life Back University Student Housing Getting Around Campus Dining on Campus Recreational Sports Our Campus Visit TTU Student Life Texas Tech University Campus Life Student Life Back Center for Campus Life Student Union & Activities Fraternity & Sorority Life Spirit Squads Student Organizations Student Leadership & Involvement History & Traditions Student Rec Center Health, Safety & Wellness Texas Tech University Campus Life Health, Safety & Wellness Back Emergency Communications Center Student Counseling Center Student Health Services Center for the Study of Addiction and Recovery Health Insurance Responsible Community Living Campus Police Behavioral Intervention Team Risk Intervention & Safety Education (RISE) Student Resources Texas Tech University Campus Life Student Resources Back Current Students Student Handbook Dean of Students University Career Center Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Academic Support Red to Black - Student Financial Planning University ID Card Athletics About Texas Tech University About Back Texas Tech University Texas Tech University About Texas Tech University Back Office of the President Office of the Provost University Outreach and Engagement Texas Tech Facts Rankings Our Campus Administrative Offices University Strategic Plan TTU Resources Texas Tech University About Back Texas Tech Today Campus Map Academic Calendar Giving Work at Texas Tech Faculty & Staff State Employee Charitable Campaign (SECC) Organizational Chart TTU Experts Guide