Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Programs and Policies » Academic Coaching » Coaching Staff Set Navigation title in component Academic Coaching Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Meet the Academic Coaches Alyson, she/her/hers Major: Finance "I am excited to continue leading students to be successful during their time in college." Campus and other involvement: Finance club, intramural soccer, I also volunteer at IHNGC pet support program and Cincinnati Animal CARE Alyssa, she/her/hers Major: Criminal Justice Certificate: Paralegal Studies "I am serving in the role to have the opportunity to engage with peers in a way that ensures they are better students in the long run!" Campus and other involvement: Melanin Fitness, CECH Ambassadors Blair, she/her/hers Major: Biological Sciences Certificates: Medical Humanities and Global Health "I am excited to help students meet their goals and get organized!" Campus and other involvement: Cupcakes for the Cure, A Moment of Magic, HOSA Caroline, she/her/hers Major: Nursing Minor: Spanish "I love reaching out to people and helping them with the struggles of college life. I want to give all my support and wisdom to underclassmen to help them become more prepared for college and give them the resources they need to succeed!" Campus and other involvement: CURE program. Claire, she/her/hers Major: Medical Sciences (pre-med) "I am so excited to become an academic coach to help others evolve into the best student they can be. I am really looking forward to seeing my peers grow and achieve their goals!" Campus and other involvement: Dance to Enhance, Chi Omega, and Phi Delta Epsilon Emma, she/her/hers Major: Speech Language Hearing Sciences Minor: Psychology "I am excited to be an Academic Coach because I am looking forward to working with students and helping them achieve their goals at UC. I am excited to be in-person and help students get acclimated to classes and campus after a year of being remote!" Campus and other involvement: NSSLHA, MC2 Esha, she/her/hers Major: Health Sciences (Pre-Occupational Therapy) Minor: Psychology "I am excited to help my peers enhance their college experience. I enjoy working with students to help them reach their goals and overcome struggles during their journey at UC!" Campus and other involvement: UC CHAARG, Pre-Occupational Therapy Club and Midwest Dhamaka. Graham, she/her/hers Major: Sociology "I am looking forward to working on-on-one with students with different stories and needs. Not only am I looking forward to mentoring those that I work with, but I am also looking forward to learning more about myself professionally and personally. Transferable skills are incredibly important in the workforce and I am expectant to obtain more of these skills that I will carry with me into my future career." Campus and other involvement: Peer Facilitator for FYE in the Learning Commons, Volunteer Coach for Iron Core Adapted Strength and Conditioning, House Group leader for City Church OTR Halli Major: Neuroscience "I am excited to be an Academic Coach because I love to help other students reach their goals. It is very rewarding to make a difference in another's academic career." Campus and other involvement: Research Assistant in a jumping spider lab Julia, she/her/hers Major: Neuroscience and Political Science Certificate: Bioethics "I am excited to get to work with and meet lots of new students, and looking forward to helping other Bearcats meet their goals! I want to work together to help others succeed and thrive at UC." Campus and other involvement: Camp Kesem UC, College of Arts & Sciences Ambassadors, ROAR Tour Guides, Circle K, NeuroSociety, and OiP-u Katelyn, she/her/hers Major: Speech Language Hearing Sciences Certificate: Deaf Studies "I enjoy watching my students succeeding and celebrating with them. I like supporting students and providing them resources. I also enjoy meeting students who are passionate about their career path!" Campus and other inolvement: ASL Club Secretary, volunteer on Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center in SLP and PT Departments Kyra, she/her/hers Major: Psychology and Neuroscience "I'm excited to learn from other students and share my experiences, as well as help them achieve their academic goals. I'm also looking forward to getting experience in a field similar to school psychology." Campus and other involvement: CHAARG, Student Safety Board, PINK Campus Team Lily, she/her/hers Major: Asian Studies Minor: Marketing and English Certificates: Japanese Language and Culture "As someone who loves education, I enjoy working with my peers to make sure that everyone has a chance to thrive while at college! I also love meeting and working with new people from all different majors around campus!" Campus and other involvement: Japanese American Student Society, UC PandaCats, Bearcat Buddies, & ENGin EFL Tutoring Lindsey, she/her/hers Major: Marketing Minors: Business Analytics and Fashion Design Studies "I am excited to be an Academic Coach because I love seeing the progress students make throughout our sessions and building relationships with them." Campus and other involvement: Dance Marathon, Pi Beta Phi, Bearcats Food Recovery Network, Peer Tutoring, National Retail Federation Mark, he/him/his Major: Digital Media Collaborative "Any goal is achievable. I'm excited to work with students, help them to perform better in class, and enjoy college life to the fullest." Campus and other involvement: Graphic designer Syd, she/her/hers Major: Criminal Justice "This will be my 5th semester as an Academic Coach and I am excited to continue meeting new people and working alongside my wonderful colleagues! I love this position as I get to help my peers work towards their personal, professional, and academic goals!" Campus and other inolvement: UC ASL Club, UC Honors Program, Cincinnati Animal CARE Humane Society Taylor, she/her/hers Major: Psychology "I love talking to other people and watching how coaching helps develop students academically, socially, mentally, and professionally. Helping others create new habits is very important for college and coaching gives students the exact material needed." Campus and other inolvement: Research Assistant at the Center for ADHD Teddie, she/her/hers Major: Criminal Justice Certificate: Legal Studies "I am excited to help other students achieve their academic goals!" Campus and other involvement: Criminal Justice Society, Phi Alpha Delta Wil, he/him/his Major: Psychology and Asian Studies "I love being able to help others take the first step at reaching their goals. I love seeing people realize how great they really are and what they can accomplish with the right approach." Campus and other involvement: member of JASS (Japanese American Student Society) and kendo club. Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top