Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Tuition and Aid Find Your Counselor Make Your Commitment Menu Admission Process Tuition and Aid Find Your Counselor Make Your Commitment You've checked us out. Now it's time to get down to basics. Are you called to be a Xavier Musketeer? We’re best known for challenging academics, Jesuit values and competitive basketball. We’re also known for being a community. At Xavier, you will discover who you are meant to be, surrounded by a caring network of fellow students, faculty, staff and alumni who believe in Xavier’s mission and believe in you. Fall 2022 Application is now open Xavier University is currently accepting applications for Xavier’s Class of 2026! Apply using either the Xavier application or Common Application There is no cost to apply All admitted students will automatically be considered for a merit scholarship Making a Musketeer High school Class of 2022 – we want to make your college application process as easy as possible. Visit Xavier’s Making a Musketeer platform to take advantage of application resources, experience Xavier’s campus virtually, and learn more about what it’s like to be a Musketeer. Take the Next Step Loading... Academic Programs Majors and Minors Life at Xavier Explore Campus Find Your Counselor State by State Make Your Commitment Deposit Here Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram