Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory The College Support for Faculty & Advisors Teaching and Advising Prizes Awarded by the College Teaching and Advising Prizes Awarded by the College The College oversees two teaching and advising prizes, awarded each year: the Henry Merritt Wriston Fellowship and the Karen T. Romer Prize for Undergraduate Advising and Mentoring. The Henry Merritt Wriston Fellowship The Henry Merritt Wriston Fellowship is awarded each year to regular untenured members of the faculty (assistant professors and lecturers) who have achieved a record of excellence in teaching and scholarship during their first years at Brown. The winner, chosen by a faculty committee, is granted one semester of leave on special assignment at full compensation, including benefits, during the next academic year. Applications for Wriston Fellowships are due by March 7, 2022. Faculty members interested in applying for this award are asked to submit their application packet electronically through UFunds. Applications should include the following: a personal essay describing the candidate's teaching philosophy and teaching accomplishments at Brown, and research plans for the fellowship semester (approx. 1000 words) a letter of support from the department chair two additional letters of support from colleagues who can comment on the candidate's teaching and on the merits of the proposal a current CV a listing of all courses taught (with enrollments), and leaves taken for each semester the candidate has been at Brown copies of teaching evaluations for the last two semesters of teaching submit application materials through UFunds, Brown's online application system. The Karen T. Romer Prize for Undergraduate Advising & Mentoring The Karen T. Romer Prize for Undergraduate Advising and Mentoring was created in 2004 to recognize and reward excellence in advising by Brown faculty. The prize was established by the family of trustee Marty Granoff, and is named for a former Associate Dean of the College who was a creative and passionate advocate for undergraduate education. The Romer Advising Prize is presented each year to two faculty members who have demonstrated extraordinary care in attending to the academic and personal needs of undergraduate students. Each winner receives an award of $7,000. A request for nominations goes out to faculty and students every February, and winners are selected by a committee of students, faculty, and administrators. The prizes are awarded at a special ceremony. For further information about these awards, please contact Jeanette Borges in the College. Home Academic Advising Teaching and Curriculum Faculty Prizes Print this Page Share this Page Dean of the College Brown University Box 1828 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-9800 Shibboleth login Shibboleth Login Quick Links Calendar There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Custom Footer 1 WebServices BrownSites Documentation BrownSites Demo Custom Footer 2 Your Custom Links PAUR Media Relations Web Style Guide