Skip to content Search Search Close Search Cornell University About ILR Who We Are About ILR Founding Faculty Alumni People at ILR Catherwood Library Faculty and Staff Resources Where We Are Cornell ILR in NYC Cornell in Buffalo Conference Centers News & Publications Research News ILR Review ILR Press Programs & Admissions Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Requirements Tuition and Aid Apply Graduate Programs Master of Industrial and Labor Relations (MILR) The Executive Master of Human Resource Management (EMHRM) Program Doctoral Program MILR / MBA Dual Degree Program Professional Education Professional Workshops, Courses, and Training Certificate Programs Senior Leader Programs Customized Professional Programs Current Students Student Success Diversity and Inclusion Student Support Career Services Consider Graduate Schools ILR Commencement Beyond the Classroom Student Research Research Fellowships International Opportunities Credit and Non-Credit Internships Student Organizations Academic Resources ILR Class Enrollment and Course Information Academic Policies Resources for Graduate Students Faculty & Research Our Faculty Faculty Academic Departments Areas of Expertise Our Research & Publications ILR Review ILR Press Centers & Institutes Conducting Research Student Research Catherwood Library Public Impact Leadership & Professional Training Senior Leader Programs Certificate Programs Professional Education Research & Insights Centers & Institutes ILR Press DigitalCommons@ILR Student Engagement Research Fellowships Credit and Non-Credit Internships Global Service Learning Alumni Make an Impact Giving to ILR Make a Gift ILRAA Alumni Association Alumni Chapters ILR Alumni Association Board of Directors Learn More About Alumni Alumni Profiles Groat and Alpern Awards Toggle Searchers Statistics and Data Science Home Academics Academic Departments Statistics and Data Science With the rise of easy data access and the reduced cost of computing, everyone can obtain data and report "stats." But to make sense of the numbers one needs to follow solid statistical methods and practices. ILR is a partner in Cornell's Department of Statistics and Data Science, which offers courses in statistics, application of statistical methods, and supervision for students across Cornell University. Our courses range from introductory statistics to advanced statistical techniques that train students in proper methods. Meeting the ILR Statistics Requirements ILR Undergraduates Take Introduction to Statistics, ILRST2100. This four-credit class is offered every semester. Students start with the basics of data collection and end with the application of hypothesis testing for regression models. We recommend that you take the introduction to statistics course (ILRST2100) early in your ILR education. Students interested in the Economics minor or more advance statistical methodology should take Probability Models and Inference for the Social Sciences, ILRST3110 rather than ILRST 2100. This four-credit class is offered every semester. This course requires introductory calculus and prepares students for further work in econometrics. Transfer your non-ILR statistics course into ILR, either from another Cornell college or outside of Cornell. You will need to provide the syllabus, book information, and details on the content covered. If your transfer course meets some but not all of the requirements, then we may ask you to take an additional two-credit class. Contact the ILR Registrar for evaluation of materials. AP Statistics credit. If you have taken the AP Statistics exam and received a 4 or 5 then you have satisfied the undergraduate requirement. Submit AP records for evaluation to the ILR Registrar. You are strongly urged talk with a department member to learn about additional courses in statistics at Cornell. Master's ILR Graduate Students Take Statistical Methods for the Social Science course, ILRST5110. This three-credit class is offered every semester. Students are assumed to have had a prior statistics course at the level of ILRST 2100 and are ready to apply statistical reasoning and techniques to a wide variety of datasets. [Note that this course is under revision.] Waive the requirement with at least three semesters of undergraduate coursework in statistics including multiple regression and ANOVA. Contact the ILR Registrar for evaluation of materials. Non-ILR Students Looking for Introductory courses – See Department of Statistical Science for course options. Recommended Additional Methodology Courses Statistical Methods for Social Science – ILRST2110 Statistical Sampling – ILRST3100 Categorical Data Analysis – ILRST4110 Survival Data Analysis – ILRST4270 Human Resource Analytics – ILRHR4664 Introduction to Python Programming – CS1110 Data Science for All – STSCI 1380 Courses of Study See course schedules and descriptions for undergraduate and graduate students. Statistical Services available at Cornell. Academic Departments Human Resource Studies International and Comparative Labor Labor Relations, Law, and History Organizational Behavior Statistics and Data Science Why Statistics? Martin T. Wells, Chair The six members of this faculty conduct research in the field of economic and social statistics. In applying their research results to their teaching, they provide their students with cutting-edge training on the principles of statistical reasoning, statistical methods, and the application of statistical tools of analysis. Faculty John A. Bunge Thomas J. DiCiccio Elizabeth Karns David Matteson Paul F. Velleman Martin T. Wells Contact Information https://stat.cornell.edu/contact News at ILR ILR Events About ILR ILRie Alumni Magazine ILR Brand Coronavirus Resources and Updates Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Privacy policy Directory Centers and Institutes Catherwood Library Conference Centers College map For faculty and staff Contact Us at ILR Web Accessibility LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 Cornell University | ILR School