HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation MANAGE MY ACCOUNT MY.CLEMSON MAPS Campus Maps Parking Space Map Long-Term Visitor Parking Short-Term Visitor Parking FORMS BikeShare Release Form Carpool Permit Application Departmental Guest Permits Departmental Space Reservation LEV / EV Employee Permit Application Payroll Deduction Election/Termination Form Special Event Parking Request Tiger Transit Rental Request Vendor Permit Application FAQ CONTACT US Tiger Transit Tiger Transit Access Card Tiger Transit Nighttime Safety Service Hours of Operations: 6 p.m. - 2 a.m. Monday - Thursday 6 p.m. - 6 a.m. Friday - Sunday. For the safety and convenience of all Clemson University students, faculty, and staff, Tiger Transit Nighttime offers service to and from any location on Clemson’s campus. Tiger Transit does not operate when Clemson University is not in session and may be unable to provide service during peak traffic times surrounding home football games. Rules to Remember: Masks are required to ride and remain over your nose and mouth. No Mask = No Ride No group riders - Each rider must submit their own ride No walk-ons - Each rider must board the bus specifically assigned and dispatched to them No eating or drinking on the bus - It makes you take your mask off which violates rule #1 See the 2021-2022 Operating Service Calendar About Tiger Transit Tiger Transit drivers are employees of Parking and Transportation Services, a department with the Division of Student Affairs. All staff members must pass a police security background check and motor vehicle record check. After this process is complete and references are checked, the new member begins a structured training program to prepare him or her for service. Tiger Transit Vehicles have two-way radios installed to maintain contact with the CUPD dispatchers. How to Get a Ride Tiger Transit rides must be requested on a phone using the TransLoc app For each method, make sure to review the pick-up and drop-off locations defined by the system. Also, be sure to include the number of people in your party, and a brief description of you or your vehicle. By using the TransLoc app, you are able to track your ride in real time. Pickup and Service Rules Transportation is only provided to and from on-campus locations. Transportation is not provided to groups of more than three persons. Transportation is not provided to persons visibly intoxicated. Be ready and at the specified pick-up location when Tiger Transit arrives. If you decide a ride is no longer necessary, please cancel your request online. Rides may be delayed by traffic or inclement weather; please be patient. Tiger Transit reserves the right to refuse transportation to persons who behave improperly during transport, are abusive to Tiger Transit personnel or who abuse the service. Departmental Rentals Tiger Transit vehicles are now available to be rented for University affiliated departments or organizations for special event transportation. Rental costs include the vehicle cost, a driver, and fuel. Prices are as follows: $40/hour for a 14-passenger bus $60/hour for a 24-passenger bus $80/hour for a 41-passenger bus Reserve a Tiger Transit vehicle today! FAQ Q. What does the Tiger Transit vehicle look like? A. It is a small bus with the Tiger Transit logo on it. Q. Will Tiger Transit take me downtown? A. Unfortunately, we cannot take any passengers to locations that are off the Clemson University campus. Q. Why does the bus arrival time (ETA) and/or bus assignment keep changing? A. The Nighttime Tiger Transit program is dispatched automatically using algorithms within TransLoc - our ride request system. Drivers cannot alter, in any way, their assigned rides or drop-offs. Additional requests, cancellations, and no-shows affects the algorithm and ride order. Cancellations are the MOST disruptive to the system. Q. I called you a little while ago for a ride and you still haven’t arrived. A. The Nighttime Tiger Transit program is dispatched automatically using algorithms within TransLoc - our ride request system. Drivers cannot alter, in any way, their assigned rides or drop-offs. Additional requests, cancellations, and no-shows affects the algorithm and ride order. Cancellations are the MOST disruptive to the system. The TransLoc app notifies you when "The bus is on the way." This message means you are locked onto that bus assignment and it is on its way to you. Minor delays (0-5 minutes) from the given ETA may still occur resulting from no-show riders, traffic, stoplights, routings, etc. You can track your bus within the TransLoc app once "The bus is on the way". Please make sure you are visible as the Tiger Transit vehicle approaches. This includes waving a flashlight, raising your arm, or walking quickly to the vehicle so the driver realizes you are their pick-up. Q. I called you for a ride and have not been assigned a bus. Why? A. You are in the queue. Being in the queue means you are waiting to be assigned an available bus based on the algorithm's routing. Do NOT cancel your ride and re-request it. You are losing your place in line and going back to the bottom. The Nighttime Tiger Transit program is dispatched automatically using algorithms within TransLoc - our ride request system. Drivers cannot alter, in any way, their assigned rides or drop-offs. Additional requests, cancellations, and no-shows affects the algorithm and ride order. Cancellations are the MOST disruptive to the system. Q. I called you for a ride and saw your vehicle pass my pick-up location. A. It was not your bus. You will receive a push notification from the TransLoc App that "The bus is on its way". At that time, you can track the live ETA and bus location on the TransLoc app as it comes to you. Q. I was the first person on the bus but the fifth person dropped off. That seems unfair. Why would this happen? A. The Nighttime Tiger Transit program is dispatched automatically using algorithms within TransLoc - our ride request system. Drivers cannot alter, in any way, their assigned rides or drop-offs. Additional requests, cancellations, and no-shows affects the algorithm and ride order. Cancellations are the MOST disruptive to the system. Book a Ride! Parking and Transportation Services G01-C Edgar Brown Union | Clemson, SC 29634 Office Hours: Mon - Fri 7:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Contact Us Copyright 2020 Webmaster