Skip to main content Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Menu Search Cornell Home About Us Education Hospitals Health Topics Diagnostic Center Departments Research Impact Alumni Directions Contact Us Emergency Phone Numbers Routine and Emergency Care Companion Animal Hospital in Ithaca, NY for cats, dogs, exotics, and wildlife 607.253.3060 Directions Equine and Nemo Farm Animal Hospitals in Ithaca, NY for horses and farm animals 607.253.3100 Directions Cornell Ruffian Equine Specialists, on Long Island for every horse 516.488.4510 Directions Ambulatory and Production Medicine for service on farms within 30 miles of Ithaca, NY 607.253.3140 Directions Animal Health Diagnostic Center New York State Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory 607.253.3900 Directions General Information Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine Ithaca, New York 14853-6401 607.253.3000 Directions Questions? Email Us People Giving Emergencies CVM Education PhD Program Combined Degree Program DVMs Seeking PhD In this section: PhD Program Combined DVM/PhD Program DVMs seeking a PhD Contact Us Our PhD Program is an interdisciplinary program consisting of outstanding graduate students conducting state-of-the-art basic, clinical and translational life sciences research alongside their world-renowned faculty mentors and other research professionals. Housed in the heart of biomedical research at the Cornell-Ithaca campus in the College of Veterinary Medicine, the BBS program takes advantage of outstanding research facilities, the vibrant Cornell undergraduate campus and strong links to the Weill Cornell Medical College campus in New York City. Faculty As a leading research institution, Cornell prides itself on the quality and diversity of its 1000+ faculty members. Cornell’s scientists, researchers and professors from across the globe have come together to conduct research on cancer, cardiovascular biology, epidemiology, infection and immunity, genetics and genomics, neuroscience and reproductive biology, among other health-related and biomedical sciences. Resources The BBS Program fosters a nurturing, student-centered community of scholars that is accessible, engaging and committed to ensuring that our graduate students reach their full potential in research, teaching and professional development. Cornell researchers have access to a variety of state-of-the-art specialized core facilities across campus. Take a look at recently funded research at Cornell University. We are also actively committed to creating a community that supports the overall wellbeing of our students. Take a look at available diversity, inclusion, and mental health resources here. Contact Us The Office of Graduate Education is a source of information regarding graduate education within the College of Veterinary Medicine. Our door is always open for questions from staff, students (past, present and potential) and faculty. GRAD STUDENT SPOTLIGHT Tuesday, April 12, 2022 - 10:23am Image Danielle Sosnicki Ph.D. Candidate Travis Lab University of Maine B.S. in Animal & Veterinary Sciences What is Your Area of Research? Why is it Important? I study mechanisms that are involved in the maturation and function of sperm. It's amazing that we still don't fully understand everything that contributes to how sperm work when the are literally one of only two tvpes of cells (oocytes, or eggs, are the other) that are primarily responsible for life persisting from one generation to the next in many species! More specifically, I study a lipid that we know helps to control sperm fertilizing ability by regulating calcium channels, but I am investigating its role in the epididymis. In this organ, sperm undergo an essential maturational process that enables them to swim, recognize the egg, and fertilize. However, we have a very limited understanding of the mechanisms that are involved in this crucial process. I'm hoping that my work can help decipher part of it. Studying the basic science of how sperm function is important because the more information we have, the more we can intervene-either when things aren't working properly, such as developing new treatments for infertility, or when they are working perfectly and we want to stop them, such as developing new contraceptives. Mv concentration is Zoology and Wildlife Conservation so I hope that my findings can help contribute to the conservation of wild and endangered species by improving how we handle sperm used for assisted reproductive technologies, or by finding new non-hormonal contraceptive targets that can be used to control animal populations. Can You Speak to the Initiatives You are Involved in within the BBS Program? I served in two different roles on the board of the BBS Graduate Student Society (BBS GSS) which is a student group that represents all students in the BBS program and advocates for changes that can benefit us all. GSS also helps build a sense of community by hosting social events throughout each semester. I started as the Coordinator for the Peer Mentor Program which matches all incoming BBS students with a current student and aims to help new students transition into the program by offering peer support even before they arrive in Ithaca. In this role I helped plan and host several events each semester for the first-year mentees and their BBS student mentors. Next, I served as GSS president and helped to oversee the GSS and our newly formed BBS Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Council. During that year our in-person events were very limited because of the pandemic so we focused a lot of our efforts on interactive virtual events that had diversity and inclusion themes. We held movie nights where we watched things such as "Picture a Scientist", D&1 journal clubs to discuss papers about the beneficial impact that diversity can have on science, and even "stupid question nights" where students could submit anonymous questions about anything they wanted answers to that they may have been uncomfortable asking in other settings. I am a student in the Zoology and Wildlife Conservation (ZWC) concentration and a trainee in the Joint Graduate Training Program UGTP) with the Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute, and while there are only a few of us in this concentration I try to make sure that we also have a sense of community. During the initial COVID-19 shutdown we started a virtual ZWC lournal Club which I have been coordinating since then. It's a nice way for us to talk about conservation and touch base to hear about what everyone is working on. Also, since students in the IGTP split their time between Cornell and Smithsonian, it's been a great way to stay in touch even when some of us are hundreds of miles away studying at the Smithsonian. What are Your Hobbies Outside of Your Scholarship? Ithaca has a lot of beautiful nature so I try to take advantage of that when I can. When the weather is nice, I like to take my dog, Spencer, hiking or to one of the parks around Cayuga Lake. I also quickly got obsessed with birding once I started exploring Sapsucker Woods near the Lab of Ornithology. I am very much an introvert, but I've been trying to use my hobbies (which are usually done alone) to make new friends and I've learned you can find a group that is interested in almost anything in Ithaca! I joined a knitting and crochet club, I go to the weekend "beginner bird walks" hosted by the local bird club, and just last month I joined a "virtual geeky book club"! What Advice Would You Give an Entering Ph.D. Student? I would encourage new PhD students to prioritize sleep and self-care. PhD programs are stressful, even if you join a lab that is a great fit for you! It is very easy to get burnt out so it's important to take care of yourself. Figure out which things work best for you to manage your stress and then do them as much as you can! These can look different for everyone but can include having a pet, being out in nature, meditating, exercising, seeking out mental health services, spending time with friends and family, traveling, etc. I would also encourage new BBS students to get involved in BBS GSS or the D&1 Council, it is a great way to make new friends in the BBS program and to make sure the events are meeting the needs of current students. Any Thing Else to Share? It has been such an honor to be part of this wonderful BBS community! From the very beginning it has been clear that the administration and faculty are very supportive and really want me to succeed. My PI, Dr. Alex Travis, and the other members of the Travis Lab have also given me an incredibly supportive environment to learn and thrive in. And finally, I'm very thankful for my friends in my BBS cohort that have been such a fun and encouraging group to go through this grad school experience with! Previous Next Previous Next Recent News More News Futile veterinary care is widespread, study finds Dr. David Russell featured in Nature Magazine Schang lab publishes recent finding on Zika virus Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine Contact College Careers Follow us on: Privacy Site Feedback Accessibility Land Acknowledgement Site Map Intranet Cornell University ©2016