Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Energy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Energy About UH Energy About UH Energy The Energy Advisory Board The Energy Coalition Faculty Energy Fellows Energy Education Educational Programs in Energy Micro-credentialing Programs Hub TIEEP | Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Program Interdisciplinary Programs Technology Challenge Accelerating Credentials of Purpose and Value (ACPV) Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Energy Research Energy Research Hub CECSR | Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility NASEM | National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine SSI | Subsea Systems Institute Energy Forecast EVolve Houston Hydrogen Programs Project SHOWPLACE Research Reports Climate Change and Carbon Management: Has the U.S. Transcended Partisanship? Carbon Management Report 2020: Changing Attitudes and an Opportunity for Action White Paper Series Forbes Blog Read Our Forbes Blog Forbes Blog Books Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Center for Carbon Management in Energy About Us CCUS Consortia with SSEB Research CCME Webinar Series Webinar Series Webinar Series Archive Energy Symposium Series 2021-2022 Symposium Series Symposium Series Archives News & Events Connections Newsletter Energy In The News Energy Events Upcoming Events Events Archive CCME Webinar Series Archive EV Webinar Series Archive UH Energy Webinar Series Archive E:90 Video Competition Hall Of Fame Student Opportunities Current Opportunities Student Resources Contact Us UH Home UH Energy About UH Energy Faculty Energy Fellows Blog Posts Bill Gilmer UH Energy About UH Energy Energy Advisory Board Energy Coalition Faculty Energy Fellows Blog Posts Energy Events Research Contact Us Connections Newsletter Energy News Energy Fellow Bill Gilmer Director, Institute for Regional Forecasting | C.T. Bauer College of Business, University of Houston Bill Gilmer is Director of the Institute for Regional Forecasting (IRF) at the University of Houston’s Bauer College of Business. The Institute monitors the Houston and Gulf Coast business cycle, analyzing how oil markets, the national economy, and global expansion influence the regional economy. Gilmer is also appointed as an inaugural University of Houston Energy Fellow. Before joining the Institute, Gilmer served the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas for 23 years, retiring from the bank as a Senior Economist and Vice President. He joined the Houston Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas as a senior economist in 1989, focusing on energy markets and regional growth. He co-managed the 11th district’s regional economic analysis from 2004-2012, and was editor of two of the bank’s regional publications. Gilmer’s work on the Texas economy has been recognized in publications such as the Wall Street Journal, The Economist, and Forbes. Gilmer also served the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas as the officer in charge of the El Paso Branch from 2003-2012, overseeing Federal Reserve operations in West Texas and New Mexico. Prior to joining the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas in 1989, he held the principal economic forecasting position at the Tennessee Valley Authority. He also worked as a research economist at the Institute for Energy Analysis in Oak Ridge, Tennessee and at the Institute for Defense Analysis in Arlington, Virginia. Gilmer was as an intern in the Texas Governor's office while finishing graduate school, and spent 1987-88 as a Visiting Research Professor at Ball State University in Muncie Indiana. He was born in Amarillo, Texas, and grew up in El Paso where he earned a Bachelor of Arts in economics from the University of Texas at El Paso. Gilmer later earned a Master of Arts and a Ph.D. in economics from the University of Texas at Austin. Christine Economides Neil Eldin Wendy Fok Bill Gilmer Jim Granato Andrew Hamilton Tracy Hester Ed Hirs Catherine Horn Robert Stewart UH Energy E. Cullen Building, Room 124AB Houston, TX 77204-2040 713-743-5355 Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Emergency Information President's Office Report Fraud Library Campus Directory Interested in all things energy? Keep up to date by subscribing to one of our mailing lists: SUBSCRIBE ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies