Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Research and Innovation Week Orientation Professional Development Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Meet our Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog ☰ The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Prospective Students Diversity Diversity at SMU Southern Methodist University is committed to nurturing an inclusive, respectful, and intellectually challenging environment for all of our graduate students. We believe that a supportive community embracing individual viewpoints and backgrounds leads to a more rigorous academic environment and a more fulfilling experience for all. Mustang Fellowships SMU offers Mustang Fellowships to a select group of incoming Ph.D. students who identify as diverse in their disciplines. These fellowships provide tuition waivers, health insurance, and stipends of $30,000 for up to five years. They thus concretely support SMU's commitment to an inclusive graduate community by creating additional funded positions in Ph.D. programs for students with diverse backgrounds. Applicants must be nominated by their prospective Ph.D. program at the time of admission to be considered for a Mustang Fellowship. Applicants who wish to be considered for a Mustang Fellowship are asked to provide in their application a brief essay explaining why their educational, cultural, geographic, or familial background will contribute to graduate program diversity at SMU. McNair Scholars SMU encourages McNair Scholars to apply to graduate studies at Southern Methodist University by waiving their application fee. Applicants to Dedman College should identify themselves in their graduate application. Applicants for the other graduate programs should contact their school's admissions office for application fee waiver information. In addition, a limited number of tuition waivers are designated for admitted McNair Scholar doctoral applicants. SMU supports the aims of this program - to identify and mentor undergraduates as they prepare for graduate school - and we are excited to participate in realizing the goal. SMU is proud to host a McNair Scholars program as well. For more information, please visit our website. Institute for Recruitment of Teachers We welcome IRT applicants seeking a graduate degree. We provide an application fee waiver for Dedman College and Simmons School of Education graduate programs. Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share