Skip To Main Content X Log in to Online Banking or select an account: Select your account type Online Banking Credit Cards mySpending Card® Mortgage Loans Health Services Financing Health Payment Plan Commerce Trust Wealth Manager Brokerage Account Student Loans Online Banking Credit Cards mySpending Card® Mortgage Loans Health Services Financing Health Payment Plan Commerce Trust Wealth Manager Brokerage Account Student Loans Log In Log In Log In Log In Log In Log In Log In Log In Log In Log In Search Search Personal Wealth Business Search Search Search Find a Branch or ATM Log In Bank Bank Accounts Checking Accounts Free Checking Interest Checking Relationship Checking mySpending Card Compare Checking Accounts Savings Account CDs & Money Market Accounts Student Banking Premier Banking Explore All Bank Account Options What's your next challenge? Tools & Resources Activate Online Banking Order Checks Identity Theft Services Refer-a-Friend Neighborhood Banking Related Articles Which savings option is right for you How to Make a Budget Contact Us 800-453-2265 Find a Branch or ATM All Contact Options Ready to Apply? Open a Checking Account Borrow Borrow Mortgages Mortgage Basics Mortgage Rates Home Equity Lending Home Equity Basics Home Equity Loan Home Equity Line of Credit Vehicle Loans Auto Loan Motorcycle Loan Boat Loan RV Loan Personal Loans ReadyLine of Credit Student Loans Patient Financing Explore All Borrowing Options What's your next challenge? Tools & Resources Mortgage Loan Calculators Personal Loan Calculators Make a Loan Payment In-School Loan Resources Student Loan FAQs Medical Refinance Loan Resources Refer-a-Friend Neighborhood Banking Related Articles Home Equity Loan Resources Mortgage Resources Contact Us 800-453-2265 Find a Branch or ATM All Contact Options Ready to Apply? Apply for a Home Loan Apply for a Vehicle Loan Invest Invest Helping You Plan Research & Insights from Commerce Trust Company Our Solutions Objective Advice Investment Management Retirement Accounts Learn More About Us Commerce Financial Advisors Commerce Trust Company Commerce Family Office Contact Us Learn About Commerce Trust Company from a Local Advisor Find a Commerce Financial Advisor Cards Cards Credit Cards Special Connections® Credit Card toggle® Credit Card Commerce Miles® Credit Card Secured Credit Card World Elite Mastercard® View All Credit Cards Debit Cards Visa® Debit Card Platinum Visa® Debit Card Visa® Gift Card mySpending Card® Explore All Card Options Tools & Resources Respond to an Offer Activate Your Card Manage Your Card Digital Wallets Contactless Cards Related Articles Credit 101: What credit is and how to get it How to boost your credit score for lower interest rates Contact Us 800-453-2265 Find a Branch or ATM All Contact Options Ready to Apply? Apply for a Credit Card Insurance Online Features Online Features Mobile Banking Technology Desktop Banking Technology Payment Technology Identity Theft Services Mobile Banking FAQs Online Banking FAQs Alerts FAQs Paperless Statement FAQs Android Support FAQs Explore All Online Features Tools & Resources Activate Online Banking Enroll in Online Bill Pay Related Articles What to know about using a digital wallet The many ways to pay Contact Us 800-453-2265 Find a Branch or ATM All Contact Options Download Our App Ideas & Tips Find a Branch or ATM Contact Us SMU credit card rewards The Southern Methodist University (SMU) Visa Signature® Rewards Credit Card Get the card that rewards you, and support your favorite university every time you make a purchase! UNLIMITED Cash Back1 with no point caps & no opt-in You have lots of choices to redeem your rewards – from 1% Cash Back1 to gift cards, travel, merchandise and more.2 A Cash Back1 redemption is applied as a statement credit. Low Introductory Rate No Annual Fee Apply now minutes and get a quick response. Disclosures: *Important Terms for the Southern Methodist University (SMU) Visa Signature® Rewards Credit Card [PDF] 4 A Cash Back redemption is applied as a statement credit. The statement credit will reduce your balance, but you are still required to make at least your minimum payment. Values for non-cash back redemption items such as merchandise, gift cards and travel may vary. Visit www.commercebank.com/signatureterms for complete details. Please note that merchants self-select the category in which transactions will be listed and some merchants may be owned by other companies, therefore transactions may not be counted in the category you might expect. To view or print a PDF file, Adobe® Reader® 9.5 or above is recommended. Download the latest version. About Us About Us Overview Corporate Social Responsibility Investor Relations Media Center Awards & Recognition Careers Careers Careers Overview How to Join Our Team Why Commerce Career Opportunities Search All Jobs Security Center Security Center Security Overview Privacy Statement Identity Theft & Fraud Security Practices Cardholder Security Other Links Other Links Contact Us Locations Challenge Accepted.® Website Accessibility Site Map Facebook You are now leaving the Commerce Bank website. By clicking the "I Agree" button below, you acknowledge and agree to the following: You will leave the Commerce Bank website and enter a third party social media/collaboration website. The information shared on Facebook.com is not the responsibility of Commerce Bank and we are not responsible for the content shared between users and participants on the site. Please note that Facebook.com may have its own privacy and security policies which differ from those of Commerce Bank. Never share your personal information on Facebook. Twitter You are now leaving the Commerce Bank website. By clicking the "I Agree" button below, you acknowledge and agree to the following: You will leave the Commerce Bank website and enter a third party social media/collaboration website. The information shared on Twitter.com is not the responsibility of Commerce Bank and we are not responsible for the content shared between users and participants on the site. Please note that Twitter.com may have its own privacy and security policies which differ from those of Commerce Bank. Never share your personal information on Twitter. LinkedIn You are now leaving the Commerce Bank website. By clicking the "I Agree" button below, you acknowledge and agree to the following: You will leave the Commerce Bank website and enter a third party social media/collaboration website. The information shared on LinkedIn.com is not the responsibility of Commerce Bank and we are not responsible for the content shared between users and participants on the site. Please note that LinkedIn.com may have its own privacy and security policies which differ from those of Commerce Bank. Never share your personal information on LinkedIn. Instagram You are now leaving the Commerce Bank website. By clicking the "I Agree" button below, you acknowledge and agree to the following: You will leave the Commerce Bank website and enter a third party social media/collaboration website. The information shared on Instagram.com is not the responsibility of Commerce Bank and we are not responsible for the content shared between users and participants on the site. Please note that Instagram.com may have its own privacy and security policies which differ from those of Commerce Bank. Never share your personal information on Instagram. Globe Link and Icon Privacy Statement | Online Privacy Policy & Terms of Service | En Español Copyright © 2022 Commerce Bancshares, Inc. All rights reserved. Commerce Bank, Member FDIC. Close I Agree Opens in a new window. Opens an external site in a new window. Opens an external site. Opens LinkedIn Site.