Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Emerging Media (BFA) – Character Animation Track Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) Visual Arts & Design, Schl of In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Emerging Media BFA allows students to integrate the multiple domains of art, design, storytelling, and technology in one of the three portfolio required tracks, Character Animation, Experimental Animation or Graphic Design. The program is designed to provide: a solid foundation in techniques and theory in one of the listed tracks; a broad understanding of related disciplines including arts, humanities, and technology; an extended experience in working in multidisciplinary teams on realistic problems. The program is administered through the School of Visual Arts and Design. The Character Animation track is a two-year, full-time prescribed series of courses designed to prepare a cohort of students for careers such as animators, story artists, visual development artists, lighting artists, technical artists, effects artists, modelers, riggers, or texture artists in the animation industry by emulating the professional production studio. Students learn all aspects of the production process, from story creation to film completion while working as part of a team. Students learn the tools and industry practices for computer generated animated filmmaking as well as the ins and outs of teamwork with opportunities for leadership amongst their peers and mentorship from the faculty. As part of the program, some courses study the form and proportion of the human figure. Nude models are used as reference. Admission Requirements Admission into the Character Animation track requires successful completion of the Character Animation Portfolio review. The Character Animation portfolio review process is held in the Spring. Portfolio information can be found at: https://svad.cah.ucf.edu/character-animation-portfolio/ Students who do not pass the Character Animation Portfolio review should contact SVAD advising ([email protected]) to discuss options. Note: One-on-one portfolio reviews are not possible due to the large number of received portfolios. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog by filing a catalog year change with their degree change form. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of at least 36 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF School of Visual Arts and Design. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each required course except DIG 2000, which requires a "B" (3.0) or better. BFA students must achieve a 3.0 GPA in all major requirements. Co-op credit cannot be used in this major. Students should consult with their SVAD advisor each semester. Note: Emerging Media majors must have continual access to a computer. Contact the UCF Technology Product Center or see the website (http://tpc.ucf.edu) for the minimum hardware and software specifications. No more than 6 hours of overlap allowed between courses used in the Emerging Media BFA and any minor. Please see SVAD advising for permission to complete more than one major in SVAD. Certain restrictions apply and plan of study must be pre-approved. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Advertising Photographer Aerial Photographer Catalogue Illustrator Graphic Design Professor Graphic Designer Magazine Designer Medical Photographer Music Professor News Photographer Photography Professor Photojournalist Piano Professor Portrait Photographer Scene and Lighting Design Lecturer Special Effects Artist Stagecraft Professor Tattoo Artist Theatre Professor Voice Professor Wedding Photographer Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Bachelors Emerging Media (BFA) - Character Animation Track University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Emerging Media BFA allows students to integrate the multiple domains of art, design, storytelling, and technology in one of the three portfolio required tracks, Character Animation, Experimental Animation or Graphic Design. The program is designed to provide: a solid foundation in techniques and theory in one of the listed tracks; a broad understanding of related disciplines including arts, humanities, and technology; an extended experience in working in multidisciplinary teams on realistic problems. The program is administered through the School of Visual Arts and Design. The Character Animation track is a two-year, full-time prescribed series of courses designed to prepare a cohort of students for careers such as animators, story artists, visual development artists, lighting artists, technical artists, effects artists, modelers, riggers, or texture artists in the animation industry by emulating the professional production studio. Students learn all aspects of the production process, from story creation to film completion while working as part of a team. Students learn the tools and industry practices for computer generated animated filmmaking as well as the ins and outs of teamwork with opportunities for leadership amongst their peers and mentorship from the faculty. As part of the program, some courses study the form and proportion of the human figure. Nude models are used as reference. Admission Requirements Admission into the Character Animation track requires successful completion of the Character Animation Portfolio review. The Character Animation portfolio review process is held in the Spring. Portfolio information can be found at: https://svad.cah.ucf.edu/character-animation-portfolio/ Students who do not pass the Character Animation Portfolio review should contact SVAD advising ([email protected]) to discuss options. Note: One-on-one portfolio reviews are not possible due to the large number of received portfolios. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog by filing a catalog year change with their degree change form. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of at least 36 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF School of Visual Arts and Design. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each required course except DIG 2000, which requires a "B" (3.0) or better. BFA students must achieve a 3.0 GPA in all major requirements. Co-op credit cannot be used in this major. Students should consult with their SVAD advisor each semester. Note: Emerging Media majors must have continual access to a computer. Contact the UCF Technology Product Center or see the website (http://tpc.ucf.edu) for the minimum hardware and software specifications. No more than 6 hours of overlap allowed between courses used in the Emerging Media BFA and any minor. Please see SVAD advising for permission to complete more than one major in SVAD. Certain restrictions apply and plan of study must be pre-approved. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 15 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 15 credits from the following: ARH2051 - History of Western Art II (3) ART2201C - Design Fundamentals-Two Dimensional (3) ART2203C - Design Fundamentals-Three Dimensional (3) ART2300C - Drawing Fundamentals I (3) ART2301C - Drawing Fundamentals II (3) GRA2101C - Introduction to Computer Art (3) GEP Course: ARH 2051 Core Requirements: Advanced Level 42 Total Credits Complete the following: ART3643C - Digital Effects & Compositing (3) DIG3355C - Artificial Environments and Effects (3) DIG3433C - Visual Storytelling and Visual Development (3) DIG3951 - Character Animation Portfolio Review DIG4206C - New Imagery in Motion Workshop (3) DIG4323C - Modeling for Visual Language (3) DIG4325C - Look Modeling Workshop (3) DIG4326C - Geometrical Modeling Workshop (3) DIG4354C - Advanced 3D Animation (3) DIG4373C - 3D Textures (3) DIG4394C - Motion Graphics: Advanced Compositing (3) DIG4451C - Visual Storytelling and Visual Development Workshop (3) DIG4624C - Digital Production in Artificial Environments (3) FIL3720C - Introduction to Animation (3) FIL3734C - Intermediate Animation (3) Capstone Requirements 6 Total Credits Complete the following: DIG4434C - Narrative Techniques in the Moving Image (3) DIG4486C - Visual Language of Moving Image II (3) Grand Total Credits: 63 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida