Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Student Leadership & Involvement Student Engagement Leadership Community Engagement Fraternity & Sorority Life Student Organizations Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Student Engagement Registered Student Organizations Join an RSO Start/Manage an RSO Accountability Status Hazing Prevention Advise an RSO PLA Tiger Zone Corq App Spirit Initiatives Student Event Allocation What is SEA?How to Submit a ProposalUpcoming Events Student Activities Council About SACSAC CommitteesEvent CalendarJoin SAC Fraternities & Sororities About FSAPotential MembersMember ResourcesInformation for ParentsInterfraternity Council (IFC)National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC)Panhellenic Council (PAN) Involvement Ambassadors Report a Concern about a Student Take Action Register for Recruitment Register for Frosh Camp Tiger Zone About Us Follow SLI Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Student Leadership & Involvement Student Engagement President's Leadership Recognition Awards Each spring, Student Leadership & Involvement in conjunction with Student Academic Success, the Commencement Office, and the Office of the President hosts the President's Leadership Awards & Honors Assembly. This reception honors the University of Memphis' finest and brightest student leaders and organizations for their leadership roles and service. We present awards in 25 different categories, including the announcement of each year's Carson Circle inductees, the highest honor for student leaders. Winners, and guests will be invited to the awards ceremony on April 26, 2022 at 6:00 PM. Nominations for all awards are now open and will close March 4, 2022 at 11:59 PM. To apply for each award, please click on the TITLE of the award below. For questions, contact MK Tyler, Interim Director, Student Leadership & Involvement at mktyler@memphis.edu or 901.678.8679. Registered Student Organiztion Awards Phoenix Award Phoenix Award This award recognizes a Registered Student Organization that has shown notable improvement with programming, student interest and involvement, and campus engagement or has gone from a state of non-existence and flourished into a thriving organization. Service Award Excellence in Service Award As stated in its Mission Statement, The University of Memphis believes, "The academic environment extends beyond the campus boundaries to encompass the entire community." The University also acknowledges that it must, as an urban institution, "Bear a special responsibility to prepare and educate the region's future leaders and professionals." In the interest of promoting the civic responsibility, community involvement, and social action, a special award has been created to recognize a project and/or ongoing effort of a student group that has demonstrated a true commitment to community and/or a social or political cause while furthering the University's mission. Collaboration Award Collaboration Award Each year students at the University of Memphis make great contributions to the campus community by providing programs and events that enhance campus experience. The Collaboration Award has been created to recognize a program or event that has been sponsored by two or more student groups. These organizations work together to provide a high quality, out-of-the-classroom experiences for the campus community while promoting the values and mission of their organizations. Program of the Year Award Program of the Year Award Each year students at the University of Memphis make great contributions to the campus community by providing programs and events that enhance campus experience. The Program of the Year Award has been created to recognize a program or event of a student group that has provided high quality, out-of-the-classroom experiences for the campus community. Dr. William E. Porter Avisor of the Year Dr. William E. Porter Advisor of the Year At the University of Memphis, advisors continue to play a vital role in the success of our student organizations. Whether by assisting the coordination of volunteer projects, providing leadership or educational presentations for organization members, or simply serving as true student advocates, University staff and faculty assist student organizations in many honorable and extraordinary ways. The Advisor of the Year Award will recognize these individuals for their service to and support of UofM students and organizations. Student Organization of the Year Organization of the Year Student organizations at the University of Memphis make great contributions to the campus environment. They connect students through social, academic, spiritual, professional, cultural and special interest outlets. They also provide leadership opportunities and hands-on experience for their members. The Organization of the Year Award recognizes Registered Student Organizations for their contribution to campus and to their membership. Individual Awards 20 Under 30 UofM 20 Under 30 The University of Memphis is comprised of over 20,000 students. Each one of those students has a story. They have become entrepreneurs, served countless hours of community service, overcome great adversity, completed innovative research, and much more. All while being a student. The students at the UofM are doing tremendous things yet, many of their stories go unheard. Student Leadership & Involvement, through collaboration with other departments on campus, would like to recognize the 2019 UofM 20 under 30. These are 20 students, under the age of 30, who have gone above and beyond what it means to be a Tiger. Respect & Civility Award Respect and Civility Award This award recognizes a student who has demonstrated a commitment to pursuing excellence in their academics, professional, and personal life. The student also upholds high ethical standards and conducts his/her self with dignity and respect on campus, in social media, and in the global community. The student holds his/her self, other students, staff, and faculty accountable to support an atmosphere of civility on our campus. The student challenges all to take responsibility of their behaviors, attitudes, and, actions. Distinguished Service Award Distinguished Service Award Thousands of University of Memphis students serve the campus and community each year. Whether through their classes, student organizations, churches, scholarship programs, University-sponsored service days, or on their own, these students dutifully respond to the needs of the Memphis community and beyond, demonstrating true citizenship and character. In the interest of promoting the civic responsibility, community service, and social action, a special award has been created to recognize a student who has demonstrated a true commitment to community and/or a social or political cause while furthering the University's mission. Most Spirited Student Most Spirited Student Award This award recognizes a student that embodies the Memphis Tiger Spirit. This individual promotes student spirit on campus and consistently supports Tiger athletic teams and other student group programs through participation. Outstanding First Year of Involvement Outstanding First Year of Involvement Award This award recognizes a first year student who has been involved in campus or community activities and has maintained a strong academic standing. A minimum 3.0 GPA is required. This student should demonstrate the ability to lead as well as the potential to become a strong student leader at the University of Memphis and in the community. Student Leader of the Year Student Leader of the Year The mission of student affairs is to foster student learning and promote student success through engagement and involvement in community, academics, diversity and leadership. This award recognizes a student who demonstrates exceptional leadership skills, a commitment to academic excellence, and fosters a diverse community. PLAHA Judging Process The President's Leadership Awards are judged by non-biased group of UofM campus and community partners. These judges are given a rubric, attached below, to evaluate a set number of awards. The awards are based off of the total rubric evaluation. PLAHA Rubrics Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/1/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.