Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Romy Riddick named Princeton vice president for human resources Emily Aronson, Office of Communications April 11, 2022, 11:40 a.m. Romy Riddick, an integral member of the Office of Human Resources since 2012, has been named Princeton’s next vice president for human resources. She will start June 1. Romy Riddick Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy Riddick will lead the Office of Human Resources (HR), which oversees the recruitment, retention and professional development of a highly skilled, diverse and vibrant group of staff members. She is currently assistant vice president of HR’s Client Services Team, which has responsibility for the areas of employee relations, talent management, labor relations and contract negotiation, learning and development, and diversity and inclusion. She previously served as HR’s director of diversity and inclusion, where she developed new programs and policies to support staff diversity efforts. “I am delighted that Romy Riddick has agreed to become Princeton's next vice president for human resources,” President Christopher L. Eisgruber said. “She is a skilled and experienced professional with a deep regard for this University's people and its values. Her leadership and service to Princeton have earned her the trust of this campus, and I look forward to working with her as she takes on this new role.” Executive Vice President Treby Williams, to whom Riddick will report, said: “I am thrilled by Romy’s appointment, and I look forward to working with Romy more directly as a member of my executive team and as a senior University leader in the President’s Cabinet.” Williams continued: “The Office of Human Resources is already a strong organization that serves University staff well. Romy, with her deep institutional knowledge, talent and commitment to Princeton’s mission, will serve as a creative leader of HR as it seizes new opportunities in support of Princeton’s goals and strategic priorities.” Riddick said she is honored to represent human resources and to support staff across the University. “I hold dear that at Princeton we cherish people and we value the contributions of staff across their many functions in support of the teaching, research and service mission of the University,” Riddick said. “I have always been dedicated to delivering HR services with an approach that enhances the employee experience.” Riddick said she looks forward to working with the “incredible employees” in HR in new and different ways. “I am fortunate for having served in the Office of Human Resources for a decade alongside highly competent and dedicated professionals with whom I have developed deeply collegial and productive working relationships,” she said. She continued: “I am looking forward to taking a fresh perspective, re-learning the institution and its needs and interests from a new vantage point. I am also excited about partnering with University leadership on the next horizons for HR: the ever-evolving workplace and labor force requires agile and creative approaches to recruiting, managing and retaining the talent we need. I look forward to the future of HR and the role it will play in service to the University in these endeavors.” In her current role leading HR’s Client Services Team, Riddick has worked with administrative and academic departments to implement and improve numerous employee programs, policies and professional development opportunities. Over the past 2½ years, Riddick also has served on the University’s COVID-19 Response Team and helped lead HR’s response to the pandemic. As the University continues to navigate COVID, she hopes HR can help staff thrive in new ways. “What an energizing time to be a part of human-centered work as HR shifts from pandemic related responsibilities to re-engaging more deeply in the mission-driven work of HR to maximize human potential for doing the very best work possible at Princeton,” she said. Riddick’s new role continues a nearly 30-year career in human resources and public service, with a focus on diversity, equity and inclusion work. Prior to joining Princeton, she was head of talent management and diversity at TD Bank, where she received the CEO Wow Leadership and the Vision in Action awards for her contributions and service to the organization. She also managed national diversity recruitment and retention efforts for PricewaterhouseCoopers and, as a former trainer in organizational development for Merrill Lynch, she delivered training and executive coaching. She began her career as a legislative aide in state government where she was responsible for research to support legislative testimony to benefit women and children for the Maryland State Women’s Caucus. Her awards include the YWCA Academy of Women Achievers, a Black Enterprise Magazine “Professional to Watch” and the National Black Achievers in Business Award. In addition, Riddick has served on the Women’s Refugee Commission, a nonprofit advocating for laws, policies and programs to improve the lives and protect the rights of refugee women and children. She also was on the Women’s Multicultural Conference Planning Board for Working Mother Media and has been a board member for the New Jersey Women’s Network for women leaders in higher education. Riddick will succeed Lianne Sullivan-Crowley, who announced she will step down as vice president for human resources at the end of this academic year. “It has been a pleasure working with Lianne,” Riddick said. “She has had tremendous personal and professional impact on so many, including me. I am grateful for her leadership and honored to follow her tenure.” Human Resources provides services to the University community in the areas of benefits and compensation; child and elder care; diversity and inclusion; employee and labor relations; human resources information systems; learning and development; staff service recognition; talent acquisition; and work life. Princeton has approximately 7,300 benefits-eligible employees (staff and faculty) and is one of the largest private employers in central New Jersey. Related Stories Lianne Sullivan-Crowley will retire as vice president for human resources Read more Riddick appointed executive director for human resources client services Read more Diversity Council formed to carry forward work from report and survey Read more Sullivan-Crowley selected as vice president for human resources Read more Princeton employees honored for dedication and service Read more Lawson, Martinez named to enhance diversity initiatives Read more Princeton employees honored for special achievement, service and management leadership Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice