Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Academic Programs Graduate Admission Academic Programs Current Graduate Students Contact Giving Academic Programs Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Departments Programs & Degrees Humanities Classical Studies English History Philosophy Romance Languages and Literatures Theology Social Sciences Economics Middle Eastern Studies Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Sociology Natural Sciences Biology Chemistry Earth and Environmental Sciences Mathematics Physics Biology: Ph.D. Chemistry: Ph.D. Classical Studies: M.A. Earth and Environmental Sciences: Ph.D. Economics: Ph.D. English: M.A., Ph.D. French: M.A. Geology: M.S. Geophysics: M.S. Hispanic Studies: M.A. History: M.A., Ph.D. Italian: M.A. Latin: M.A. Mathematics: Ph.D. Middle Eastern Studies: M.A. Philosophy: M.A., Ph.D. Philosophy and Theology: M.A. Physics: Ph.D. Political Science: M.A., Ph.D. Psychology and Neuroscience: Ph.D. Sociology: M.A., Ph.D. Theology: Ph.D. Nondegree Options Students not seeking a degree but who are interested in pursuing coursework at the graduate level may apply for nondegree admission. Many individuals choose this option to either explore the seriousness of their interest in pursuing an advanced degree or to strengthen their credentials for later application to degree-granting programs. Instructor permission is required prior to starting nondegree applications. Please consult Boston College's Course Schedule to identify intended coursework and contact instructors on record to inquire about attending their class as a nondegree student. Applicants should then submit the following requirements: MCGS Application Form, Application Fee, Statement of Purpose (noting intended coursework and instructor permission received) and Transcripts. Please Note: Nondegree students may only take courses in the department and academic term into which they have been admitted. Departmental permission is required to continue beyond that term. Admission does not guarantee subsequent admission for degree candidacy. Individuals admitted as nondegree students, who later wish to apply for degree study, must reapply in full and be accepted into a degree-granting program. The number of credits earned that may be applied toward degree completion is determined by academic departments, in accordance with MCGS regulations. Applicants are not eligible for University financial aid or any financial aid that requires matriculation in a degree-granting program. International Students requiring a Boston College-sponsored student visa are not eligible for nondegree study. Fifth Year B.A./M.A. and B.S./M.S. In cooperation with the College of Arts and Sciences, the Graduate School offers a five-year B.A./M.A. program in some departments. Application to the program normally takes place early in the second semester of the junior year. Students in the two-year M.A. program cannot be retroactively considered for the five-year B.A./M.A. program. That is, students who begin the two-year M.A. program cannot switch to the B.A./M.A. program. The applicant must complete an application to the Master's degree program in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Application requirements may differ slightly from the traditional Master's program. Please check with the department to determine required materials. Admission to the B.A./M.A. program normally requires an overall GPA of 3.333 and a GPA of 3.5 in the major, although specific B.A./M.A. program requirements will vary across departments. The program limits the number of courses to two in total credited towards the Master's degree that may also be counted towards the undergraduate degree. The undergraduate degree will be conferred upon completion of undergraduate requirements. The Master's degree will be conferred upon completion of degree requirements as specified by the department. Back To Top Back To Top Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 108 617-552-3265 gsasinfo@bc.edu About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College