Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Mental Health Climate Solutions Celebrating the Class of ’22 Mental Health To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. If you are experiencing a mental health crisis or you think you may have an emergency, call your doctor or 911 immediately. Please reach out to our student and employee University mental health resources if needed. The toll of a global pandemic The COVID-19 pandemic has led to a rise in mental health concerns, including anxiety, stress, and feelings of isolation. Mental health in a post-pandemic world Matthew Nock discusses the increase in adolescents experiencing mental health issues and what treatment might look like in a post-pandemic world. Learn more from The Harvard Gazette Coping with pandemic stress on campus Many have struggled with health and safety concerns associated with working, teaching, and learning, both remotely and on campus. Read more from Counseling and Mental Health Services How has the pandemic impacted children’s mental health? A series of national surveys conducted in 1999, 2004, and 2017 provided a baseline for looking at children’s mental health, revealing some troubling underlying trends. Read more from the Harvard Chan School How pandemic stressors can affect mental health Lifestyle disruptions during the pandemic may have triggered inflammation in the brain contributing to fatigue, concentration difficulties, and depression Read more from The Harvard Gazette Why returning to “normal” feels so not Psychologists, psychiatrists, and counselors have long predicted that once the pandemic’s physical impacts lessened, there would be a mental health fallout. Read more from the Harvard Chan School The cost of distancing Experts share that for most healthy individuals, additional time spent socially distant from family and friends may worsen a growing national mental health problem. Learn more from the Harvard Kennedy School Managing mental health Mental health impacts each person differently. Harvard experts share ways to care for ourselves and for others. Learn more from the Center for Wellness and Health Promotion Early childhood Building resilience through play Far from frivolous, play contributes to sturdy brain architecture, the foundations of lifelong health, and the building blocks of resilience. Health care workers Increasing investments in mental health benefits everyone College Students Creating a culture of success—for all college students Employees Ways managers can support employees’ mental health Spiritual communities Cultivating a contemplative practice Adolescents What do anxious teens need? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Mental health apps claim to treat depression, anxiety, and other mental illnesses without therapy appointments. Do these apps actually work, or are they too good to be true? Read more from The Harvard Gazette Research and discoveries Bipolar breakthrough A genetic study involving thousands of people with bipolar disorder has revealed new insight into the condition’s molecular underpinnings. Read more from Harvard Medical School Baby teeth and mental health Baby teeth of children born to mothers with a history of severe depression or other psychiatric problems offer a common characteristic. Read more from Massachusetts General Hospital Changing the global face of mental health care Vikram Patel, a leader in championing new models of mental health delivery, recently started testing the idea of community-based mental health care using local human resources. Learn more about his work Lower risk of depression with elevated exercise Thirty-five minutes a day of physical activity may protect against depression, even in those who are genetically vulnerable. Read more about the study Can microdosing psychedelics improve your mental health? There is an emerging push within the scientific community to study psychedelic drugs as treatments for psychiatric conditions that could potentially be more effective medications. Read more from the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences A drug discovery platform for mental health conditions A new screening system developed by the Wyss Institute rapidly identifies drugs that could treat illnesses like bipolar disorder. Read more from the Wyss Institute Mental health resources at Harvard Library resources to support mental health Libraries are for more than just working and studying, and Harvard affiliates are encouraged to take advantage of these free resources to practice self-care and support good mental health. Read more about resources at Harvard’s libraries The graduate student mental health crisis A 2020 report indicated that nearly one in four graduate students surveyed at Harvard exhibited symptoms of moderate to severe depression. Take a deep dive into the graduate student mental health crisis with Dr. Emily Bernstein, a clinical psychologist at Massachusetts General Hospital’s Center for Digital Mental Health. Listen to the podcast Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00