Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu UofM Media Room Publications News Releases Podcasts Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News Releases Awards News Releases Archive Take Action Music Performance Calendar Upcoming Art Exhibits University Events Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home UofM Media Room News Releases U.S. News & World Report UofM Online Programs No. 1 in Tennessee for 3rd Straight Year by U.S. News & World Report Jan. 25, 2022 — The University of Memphis is the highest-ranked institution in Tennessee for the third-straight year by U.S. News & World Report in its 2022 rankings of online programs. The UofM’s status in these rankings began its incredible climb five years ago, culminating in the top spot for three consecutive years. The UofM is ranked in the top 150 in nine categories nationally, including six in the top 30. Undergraduate Psychology is ranked No. 18 followed by Best Online Criminal Justice at No. 22, Best Online Education for Veterans at No. 28, Best Online Bachelor’s Program for Veterans at No. 28, Best Online MBA for Veterans at No. 29, Undergraduate Business at No. 30 and Best Online Nursing at No. 38. The UofM is now ranked in the top 50 in the Best Online Bachelor’s category at No. 44 and achieved its highest ranking for Best Online MBA at No. 42. In addition, the UofM improved its ranking year-to-year in every single category except one, as Criminal Justice fell only one spot. “We are honored to receive even more national recognition on what the University of Memphis is continuing to achieve,” said UofM President M. David Rudd. “It is tremendous that we continue to climb in the U.S. News & World Report Rankings for the third consecutive year as well as once again being ranked as the No. 1 institution in the State of Tennessee. “I also want to thank the Governor, the state legislature, our trustees and especially Congressman (Steve) Cohen for his unwavering support of our Carnegie R1 initiative, as he’s played a critical role in helping the UofM significantly grow federal support over the past eight years. “The last two years have been very challenging for everyone at the UofM. I always want to give praise where praise is deserved, and that goes to our outstanding faculty and staff, not only for the past two years but for the last eight years. Eight years ago, we had only one program ranked, our online MBA. Our remarkable progress continues to shine.” The seven UofM Global programs that are ranked nationally and deemed U.S. News Best Online Programs include: Undergraduate Psychology (No. 18) Criminal Justice (No. 22) Undergraduate Business (No. 30) Graduate Nursing (increased to No. 38 from No. 45 in 2021) MBA Programs (increased to No. 42 from No. 45 in 2021 and from No. 89 in 2018) Bachelor’s (increased to No. 44 from No. 53 in 2021 and from No. 125 in 2018) Graduate Education (increased to No. 102 from No. 146 in 2021) The UofM improved 44 spots from the previous year as Best Online Education is ranked No. 102 overall No. 1 in Tennessee. “Ascension in the rankings is an endorsement of our online program investment strategy,” said Dr. Richard Irwin, executive dean for UofM Global & College of Professional/Liberal Studies. “All online academic programs in UofM Global are developed and delivered by rigorously trained UofM faculty and supported by a robust network of academic services, coaches and advisors, ultimately leading to unparalleled student success.” The UofM is ranked No. 1 in Tennessee in 10 rankings. “As a proud alumnus of the University of Memphis law school, I am delighted to see the University recognized by U.S. News and World Report as a top-tier research institution and for its commitment to high quality scholarship in a wide variety of fields,” said Congressman Steve Cohen (TN-09). “I congratulate Dr. Rudd and all who have made this success a reality.” In addition, the University of Memphis has recently been named an R1 institution by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education, putting the UofM in the top tier of research universities nationally. This milestone solidifies the University as one of two flagship public institutions in Tennessee. Carnegie R1 status is a credit to the vision, work ethic and dedication of the faculty, staff and leadership at the UofM. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/22/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.