Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES ANTHROPOLOGY ARCHAEOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 ARCHY 101 Exploring Archaeology (5) I&S Introduces perspectives from archaeology on the long term history of the diversity and the dynamics of human life. Examines how archaeologists gather and use data and how that information is relevant to contemporary society. Concepts and methods introduced through readings focus around a theme that varies such as environmental issues, warfare, and migration. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 101 ARCHY 105 The Human Past (5) I&S Explores human cultural and biological evolution: how ancestors 2,500,000 years ago were like us but still different, Neanderthals and their extinction, social/economic revolutions from foraging to farming to states and empires, setbacks, failures, relationships with social and natural environments, and the role of technology. Examines the astonishing variety of adaptations humans have made. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 105 ARCHY 109 Archaeology in Film (5) I&S Deals with depictions of archaeology by and for non-archaeologists and implication of those depictions at the intersection of archaeology, the human past, and popular culture. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 109 ARCHY 205 Principles of Archaeology (5) I&S Techniques, methods, and goals of archaeological research. Excavation and dating of archaeological materials. General problems encountered in explaining archaeological phenomena. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 205 ARCHY 208 Introduction to Archaeological Data Science (5) NW Pyramids, Stonehenge, Nazi Death Camps: Pseudo-archaeology makes radical claims about such sites, but what do the data reveal? Tackles false claims about the human past using archaeological data. Hands-on experience of data analysis and visualization using the software program R in computing laboratories. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 208 ARCHY 212 Introduction To Ancient Egyptian Archaeology (5) VLPA/I&S Stephanie Selover Survey of the archaeology, art, and architecture of ancient Egypt from the prehistoric cultures of the Nile Valley ( c. 10,000 BCE) until the end of the New Kingdom ( c.1000 BCE), exploring Egyptian gods, divine kings, pyramids, temples, mummification, society, government, religion, medicine, magic, sex, childbirth, and death. Offered: jointly with NEAR E 209. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 212 ARCHY 234 Trash and Dirt (5) I&S How do we develop a sense of disgust? What is the life cycle of cultural objects? How do people "clean up"? Where does your trash go? What can sh*t tell us about human history? What is considered "dirty" in different cultural contexts and different historical moments? Archaeologically centered exploration of diversity of human practices in defining and handling dirty stuff. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 234 ARCHY 235 Exploring Graffiti: Combining Landscape Archaeology and Data Science (5) I&S Learn about the world of graffiti, collect Seattle graffiti data, describe and analyze Seattle graffiti topics using a combination of data science (e.g. concepts including programming, data analysis and visualization, file processing) and landscape archaeology skills. Hands on experience using computer code to analyze data collected in the course View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 235 ARCHY 236 The Mystery behind the Material World (5) I&S Things are everywhere. We make them and they also make us. Things are evocative, aesthetic, and unnerving. They define us. We need them to communicate, to remember, to govern. But things need us too. This course is an introduction to the study of things, architecture, and so on from an interdisciplinary perspective. Topics such as identity, memory, commodities/gifts, cognition, and agency are explored through the analysis of the material world. Offered: jointly with ANTH 236. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 236 ARCHY 269 Special Topics in Archaeology (3-6, max. 12) I&S Investigation of special topics in archaeology focusing on developing basic analytical, practical, and numerical skills. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 269 ARCHY 270 Field Course in Archaeology (12) NW/I&S Introduction to field acquisition of archaeological data through survey and excavation. On-going field projects; recovery and recording techniques. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 270 ARCHY 272 Short Field Course in Archaeology (5) I&S/NW Learn how archaeologists detect human occupation on the landscape by surveying, excavating, and crating evidence of the past. Students learn from start to finish the process of archaeological field investigation. Location may change from year to year. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 272 ARCHY 299 Archaeological Laboratory Techniques (1-3, max. 12) I&S Laboratory procedures geared to one specific archaeological research project. Archaeological collection, its processing and curation, how archaeological materials are processed, and how significance is determined. No more than 5 credits may be used toward an anthropology major. Prerequisite: either ARCHY 105 or ARCHY 205. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 299 ARCHY 303 Archaeology of Africa and Eurasia (5) I&S Explores African and Eurasian prehistory from beginnings of human culture to rise of states and empires. Examines first tools made by humans, spread of humans out of Africa, origins of agriculture, and rise of state society. Covers Africa, Near East, Egypt, China, India, Europe. Prerequisite: ARCHY 205. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 303 ARCHY 304 Archaeology of the Americas (5) I&S Explores the history of earliest Americans, beginning with crossing of land bridge between Asia and North America and eventual spread over the Americas. Highlights prehistory and best examples of western hemisphere's states and empires. Covers Mexico, Yucatan, Peru, southwestern and eastern United States, Washington. Prerequisite: ARCHY 205. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 304 ARCHY 309 Archaeology of Mainland Southeast Asia (5) I&S Covers the archaeology of mainland Southeast Asia from the first colonization by hominins to the appearance of written texts, especially in Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam, and Myanmar. Emphasizes methods of acquiring archaeological data and addressing current controversies about mainland Southeast Asia prehistory. Prerequisite: ARCHY 205. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 309 ARCHY 313 Ancient Technologies of the Near East (5) I&S Introduction to ancient pyrotechnic technologies. Covers the laboratory methods used by modern archaeologists to study ancient ceramics, glass and metals, the methodologies behind the creation of these materials, and the invention of these technologies in the Near East, with brief comparisons with China and the New World. Offered: jointly with NEAR E 313. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 313 ARCHY 319 Archaeology of Australia (5) I&S Archaeology of Australia with an emphasis on understanding of the evidence and interpretation of both singular events and long-term processes in prehistory. Prerequisite: ARCHY 205. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 319 ARCHY 320 Archaeology of the Northwest Coast (5) I&S Origins, development, and variation of Pacific Northwest cultures, focusing particularly on Washington. Adaptations to maritime and interior environments. Artifacts from a variety of archaeological sites. Technological, functional, and historical significance of Northwest artifacts. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 320 ARCHY 325 Archaeology of Island Southeast Asia and the Pacific (5) I&S History of the human occupation of the South Pacific Islands, especially Indonesia, Philippines, Micronesia, Melanesia, and Polynesia. Focus on current debates about human migrations, long distance maritime trade, political structures, culture contact, and colonialism. Emphasis on the analysis of the primary archaeological and documentary data. Prerequisite: ARCHY 205. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 325 ARCHY 345 Global Ethnoarchaeology (5) I&S Examines ethnoarchaeological techniques, practices and hands-on applications to understanding how humans create and occupy archaeological sites and make artifacts from across the world. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 345 ARCHY 369 Special Problems in Archaeology (3-6, max. 12) I&S Delineation and analysis of a specific problem or related problems in archaeology focusing on developing research and scholarly communication skills. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 369 ARCHY 372 Archaeological Field Recording Techniques (5) NW, QSR Teaches hands-on archaeological field techniques. Co-requisite: ARCHY 373. Prerequisite: any 200 level ARCHY course. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 372 ARCHY 373 Principles of Archaeological Field Recording (3) I&S Provides students the theoretical, technical, and mathematical basis for using different recording and mapping devices (e.g. Total stations, DGPS, GIS) used in archaeology. Prerequisite: any 200 level ARCHY course View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 373 ARCHY 377 Archaeology of the Arctic (5) I&S Archaeological history of the circumpolar arctic and subarctic from Pleistocene to the nineteenth century. Variability in human adaptation and social change in extreme cold environments such as Eurasian tundra, North Pacific rim, Beringia, and North American high arctic. Prerequisite: ARCHY 205. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 377 ARCHY 378 Prehistory of the Arid West (5) I&S Archaeology of arid western North America, with particular emphasis on the earliest peoples of this region (and on the peopling of the New World in general), and on the prehistoric hunter-gathers of the Great Basin and Southwest. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 378 ARCHY 403 The Archaeology of Landscapes (5) I&S/NW Study of landscapes in archaeology. Methods for landscape research: historic maps, diaries, aerial photographs, geophysical and satellite imagery, etc. Archaeological landscape surveys: principles and limitations. Review of various theoretical approaches. Examination of key case studies, issues on landscape heritage, and indigenous landscapes. Prerequisite: any 200 level ARCHY course View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 403 ARCHY 410 Introduction to Archaeological Theory (5) I&S Explores core theories guiding archaeological research for the past half century. Read and discuss exemplary expositions of different theoretical paradigms and their applications. Short essays and mock debates will challenge students to understand the goals and assumptions of different approaches, and the role they play in effective research. A final paper will go deeper on a topic of choice. Prerequisite: ARCHY 205 or permission of instructor View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 410 ARCHY 459 Special Topics in Archaeological Science (3-5, max. 10) I&S Prerequisite: ARCHY 205 View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 459 ARCHY 465 Public Archaeology (5) I&S Examines archaeology as practiced, regulated, represented, and paid for in the world outside of academia. Reviews the development of cultural resource management laws in the context of other social changes, investigates archaeology job opportunities outside of academia, and discusses how the public learns about and funds archaeology. Prerequisite: ARCHY 205. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 465 ARCHY 466 Archaeology Honors Thesis ([1-9]-, max. 18) I&S Individual research under the direction of a thesis adviser, culminating in a senior honors thesis. Open only to upper-class students in departmental honors program. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 466 ARCHY 467 Research Ethics in Archaeology: Conservation, Accountability, and Stewardship (5) I&S Advanced survey of ethics issues that arise in archaeology including: accountability to descendent communities; professional codes of conduct; response to looting and commercial exploitation of the record; and the implications of a conservation ethic and principles of stewardship for archaeological practice. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 467 ARCHY 469 Special Studies in Archaeology (3-6, max. 18) I&S Consideration in detail of specific archaeological topics, either methodological or substantive in content, of current interest. Offered occasionally by resident, new, or visiting faculty. For advanced undergraduates and graduate students. Prerequisite: ARCHY 205. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 469 ARCHY 470 The Archaeology of Extinction (5) I&S/NW Uses archaeological and paleoecological data to examine the argument that prehistoric peoples caused vertebrate extinction, from the late Ice Age extinction of ground sloths and saber-toothed cats in North America to the extinction of moas in New Zealand some 500 years ago. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 470 ARCHY 472 Historical Archaeology (5) I&S Theory and method in historical archaeology of the Americas. Prerequisite: ARCHY 205; ARCH 473 which must be taken concurrently. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 472 ARCHY 473 Historical Archaeology Laboratory (3) I&S Provides students training in historical material culture analysis. Prerequisite: ARCHY 205; ARCHY 472 which must be taken concurrently. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 473 ARCHY 480 Advanced Archaeological Analysis: Ceramics (6) I&S Surveys history of ceramic studies in archaeology and introduces analytical methods involving ceramic function, style, unit construction and sampling, use wear, and trade and exchange. Laboratory provides hands-on experience with prehistoric ceramics, and applies various techniques for studying composition, form, manufacturing methods, and firing strategies. Prerequisite: ARCHY 205. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 480 ARCHY 481 Zooarchaeology (6) NW/I&S Seminar on techniques and methods employed in analysis of faunal remains from a wide range of Pleistocene and Holocene settings, including archaeological sites, coupled with a laboratory focusing on identification of faunal remains from these settings. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 481 ARCHY 482 Geoarchaeology Seminar (5) NW Seminar on the identification, analysis, and interpretation of sediments and soils associated with archaeological remains. Covers geomorphology, geochemistry and geophysics in archaeology. Co-requisite: ARCHY 486. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 482 ARCHY 483 Lithic Technology (5) NW, QSR Current approaches to analysis of lithic technology, including types of information obtainable (technological, functional, social, ideological) and constraints affecting the formation and analysis of lithic assemblages. Lectures and seminars surveying recent research and debates. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 483 ARCHY 484 Archaeological GIS (5) NW/I&S Teaches students the basics of GIS through a series of hands-on tutorials using archaeological datasets, and provides them with a critical view of the application of this tool within the field of archaeology. Prerequisite: any 200 level ARCHY course. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 484 ARCHY 486 Geoarchaeology Laboratory (3) NW Laboratory course covering a variety of geoarchaeological techniques, with experiments designed to illustrate major concepts. Co-requisite: ARCHY 482. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 486 ARCHY 487 Dating Methods in Archaeology (6) NW Introduces students to the theory and method of dating in archaeology. The class will be divided into two parts. The first part will (a) give a general overview of dating theory, (b) survey several of the main dating methods, and (c) provide discussion of particular applications presented by the students. The second part will focus on the methodology and technique of one particular dating method, luminescence dating. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 487 ARCHY 488 Lithic Technology Laboratory (3) NW Application of methods to archaeological problems relating to stone artefacts. Basic lab skills to prepare for advanced research. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 488 ARCHY 489 Archaeology Practicum (2-9, max. 15) I&S Faculty-supervised internships either on or off campus in organizations utilizing archaeological skills in academic or non-academic settings. Includes cultural resource management companies, government agencies, private non-profit organizations, tribal governments, and museums. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 489 ARCHY 490 Museum Curation Practicum: Archaeology (1-5, max. 15) Application of museological training in curation of archaeological collections including ethnographic, geological, or zoological collection materials in the Burke Museum. Supervised work ranges from fundamental collection documentation and research to preventive conservation, storage, and other special curation projects: View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 490 ARCHY 494 Archaeological Data Visualization (5) NW Data visualization, an essential component for discovering, understanding and communicating information provides a solid background in the theory and practice of data visualization as it applies to archaeological datasets and paleo-environmental datasets. Uses graphical packages found in the Python ecosystem to explore elementary concepts in archaeological narratives, visually. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 494 ARCHY 495 Quantitative Archaeological Analytic Techniques (5) NW, QSR Introduction to quantitative approaches to archaeological problems; data screening, numeric methods of classification and identification, graphical and computer-based seriation techniques, and the analysis of spatial patterning in artifact distributions. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 495 ARCHY 496 Computational Quantitative Methods in Archaeology (3) NW, QSR Introduction to basic programming skills, computational solutions and visualization techniques needed to explore and investigate archaeological datasets. Recommended: basic statistics course. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 496 ARCHY 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 12) View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 499 ARCHY 508 Histories of Archaeological Theory and Practice (5) Advanced history of archaeological theories and traditions of research practice. Topics include the formation of scientific and humanistic research traditions in anthropological archaeology; comparative global histories of archaeology; object biographies and histories of craft practice in emerging research traditions; and critical histories of inequality and marginality in archaeology. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 508 ARCHY 509 Archaeology and Explanation (5) Analytical and historical examination in archaeology and philosophy of science. Prerequisite: permission of instruction. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 509 ARCHY 510 Introduction to Archaeological Theory (5) Explores core theories guiding archaeological research for the past half century. Read and discuss exemplary expositions of different theoretical paradigms and their applications. Short essays and mock debates will challenge students to understand the goals and assumptions of different approaches, and the role they play in effective research. A final paper will go deeper on a topic of choice. Prerequisite: ARCHY 205 or permission of instructor View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 510 ARCHY 512 Looting and Loss (5) Explores the history and context of the recent politicization, looting, and destruction of archaeological and cultural sites in the Middle East and beyond, set against the background of museums, antiquities laws, and the ethical considerations of modern archaeologists. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 512 ARCHY 513 Ancient Technologies of the Near East (5) Introduction to ancient pyrotechnic technologies. Covers the laboratory methods used by modern archaeologists to study ancient ceramics, glass and metals, the methodologies behind the creation of these materials, and the invention of these technologies in the Near East, with brief comparisons with China and the New World. Offered: jointly with NEAR E 513. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 513 ARCHY 519 Archaeology of Australia (5) B. Marwick Archaeology of Australia with an emphasis on understanding of the evidence and interpretation of both singular events and long-term processes in prehistory. Recommended: A background at least equivalent to a bachelor's degree in the field or a related interdisciplinary field Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 519 ARCHY 520 Principles of Archaeological Theory (5) Review of principles of archaeological theory. Student presentation of research on archaeological theory and seminar discussion or presentations. Open only to first-year graduate students in anthropology. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 520 ARCHY 525 Archaeology of Island Southeast Asia and the Pacific (5) History of the human occupation of the South Pacific Islands, especially Indonesia, Philippines, Micronesia, Melanesia, and Polynesia. Focus on current debates about human migrations, long distance maritime trade, political structure, culture contact, and colonialism. Emphasis on the analysis of the primary archaeological and documentary data. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 525 ARCHY 530 Prehistory of the Northwest Coast (5) View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 530 ARCHY 535 Exploring Graffiti: Combining Landscape Archaeology and Data Science (5) Hidden stories behind Seattle's graffiti, combining techniques from archaeology and data science. What does graffiti say about the city? About anti-establishment struggle? About social vindications? Is it gendered? What types of graffiti populate the city? Is graffiti opportunistic? Territorial? Are there graffiti hotspots? What does Seattle's graffiti ecology look like? View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 535 ARCHY 545 Ethnoarchaeology (5) Examines ethnoarchaeological research, theory, techniques, practices, and hands-on applications to understand how humans create and occupy contemporary sites in order to better understand archaeological sites. Part of the requirement will be to explore processes of creating an artifact from a culture. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 545 ARCHY 560 Seminar in Archaeological Methods (5, max. 20) Basis, limitations, and applications of a particular archaeological analytical method, or closely related set of methods. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 560 ARCHY 561 Dating Methods in Archaeology (6) Theory and method of dating in archaeology. How archaeologists determine time, in both relative and absolute senses. Methodology of stratigraphy, seriation, radiocarbon dating, dendrochronology, obsidian hydration dating and other methods. Special emphasis on, and laboratory experience in, luminescence dating. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 561 ARCHY 570 Seminar in Archaeological Theory (3-6, max. 18) Detailed consideration of a particular archaeological theory or closely related set of theories, including their methodological and epistemological bases. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 570 ARCHY 573 Indigenous Archaeology (5) Examines theory, method, and ethical issues raised by indigenous approaches to archaeological practice. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 573 ARCHY 574 Meta-archaeology: Philosophy and Archaeology (1-5, max. 5) Examines philosophical issues raised in and by archaeology, including theories of explanation and model building, analyses of evidential reasoning and hermeneutic interpretation, debates about ideals of objectivity and about science and values. Offered: jointly with PHIL 574. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 574 ARCHY 575 Archaeological Field Research Design (6) Nature of the archaeological record, and methods and techniques of field research, to illustrate range of data sources and modern techniques of general applicability. Practical experience in mapping, map interpretation, sampling design, remote sensing, photogrammetry, and research proposal writing. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 575 ARCHY 576 Designing Grant Proposals (5) Design and writing of grant proposals for archaeological research at both dissertation and senior investigator levels, with particular emphasis on National Science Foundation structure and requirements. Prerequisite: upper-level graduate standing and permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 576 ARCHY 579 Approaches to the Material World (5) Exploration of major theoretical approaches used to understand the relationship between people, the material world, and objects (material culture). View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 579 ARCHY 599 Teaching Archaeology (2-6, max. 12) Provides instruction in archaeological pedagogy. Includes syllabus development, text selection, lesson planning and delivery, lab section planning, assessment and grading strategies, technological support, staff management, and troubleshooting. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 599 ARCHY 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 600 ARCHY 601 Internship (3-10, max. 10) Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: ARCHY 601 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022