Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson.edu Public Service and Agriculture Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift State Veterinarian Veterinary Diagnostic Center Animal Health Programs Meat and Poultry Inspection LPH HOME Animal Health Programs Disease Traceability Tagging Info Premises Registration Species Information Reportable Diseases NPIP Import Requirements SC Ag-Watch / Biosecurity Animal Emergencies Permits SC Animal Health Laws Veterinary Extension Secure Milk Supply Contact Us AHP Staff Animal Health Programs 803-726-7805 (main line) Sean Eastman, DVM Director of Field Services peastma@clemson.edu 803-726-7804 Livestock Poultry Health 803-788-2260 (front desk) LPH Employment Opportunities (NEW!) Facebook Google Maps Directions Animal Health Programs The Animal Health Programs (AHP) department coordinates activities to protect the health of South Carolina livestock and poultry populations, consumers, and the state’s economy from catastrophic livestock and poultry diseases. The prevention, early detection, prompt containment and eradication of emergency animal diseases are of the highest importance. The health status of livestock and poultry, statewide and on individual farms, is a critical factor for access to markets in other states and countries. Under the guidance of the State Veterinarian, AHP staff work closely with the USDA APHIS VS, and other state agencies as appropriate, to carry out its mission. This department is responsible for the enforcement of state and federal animal health laws and regulations that protect animal health through control of endemic, foreign, and emerging diseases. Animal Health Programs regulate animal disease surveillance testing and movement of livestock and poultry; provide oversight of public auction markets, livestock sales and exhibitions to ensure animal disease traceability; and administer the SC Ag-Watch program, which promotes basic animal disease prevention practices, disease threat awareness, and best management practices for SC livestock and poultry producers. Animal Health Programs staff also have responsibility for coordination of state animal emergency response planning for animal disease incidents and natural/man-made disasters. Quick Links Emergency Notices Import Requirements Reportable Diseases Laws and Regulations Infectious Disease Manual Animal Health Monitoring System Interstatelivestock.com List of State Veterinarians Links are provided for informational purposes only. They do not constitute an endorsement of any non-affiliated organizations, businesses, products, services, or content of these pages by Clemson University Livestock Poultry Health or Clemson University. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Livestock Poultry Health PO Box 102406, Columbia, SC 29224-2406 (500 Clemson Rd, Columbia, SC 29229) 803-788-2260 Emergency Preparedness Web Accessibility For Employees Page Update Request