Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Research People Connect News & Events Resources This AI Learned Physics...But How Good Is It? Innovation. Ideation. Computing at Clemson offers a nationally-recognized faculty that prides itself on the quality of its teaching and a wide range of research areas. Students majoring in one of our three undergraduate degrees take a common computing core curriculum, which exposes students to a variety of programming languages (e.g., C, C++, and Java) and fundamental concepts. Each degree then layers on a different combination of additional coursework to augment the core. The College of Engineering, Computing & Applied Sciences is offering virtual online information sessions with the ability to attend a major-specific breakout session afterward. Tour Campus Reach Further Artificial intelligence bolsters both the economy and national security. AIRISE helps prepare Clemson to compete for research grants at a federal level by combining resources with a global focus. Trisha Sorber: Staff Award Hester: Young Alumni Award Seminars Apply Now Degree Programs Faculty Giving Faculty Positions Hiring: Two Tenure-Track Faculty at Assistant/Associate Levels The School of Computing invites applications for two tenure-track faculty at assistant/associate levels starting in Fall 2022. T/TT faculty in the School of Computing are members of the Divisions of Computer Science, Human-Centered Computing, and Visual Computing. Candidates will be invited to join the Artificial Intelligence Research Institute for Science and Engineering, which is led out of the School of Computing. APPLY | Tenure-Track Hiring: Lecturer The School of Computing at Clemson University invites applicants for Lecturer positions beginning August 2022. Responsibilities will include teaching (primarily for undergraduate classes), student advising, participation in departmental and university committees, and other typical faculty responsibilities. Teaching assignments will be determined based on school needs and candidate interests. APPLY | Lecturer Top News May12 Clemson University’s cybersecurity strength highlighted with seventh competition victory in 10 years Read More Apr28 Top students honored by College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Read More Feb21 From Drake to disco: Daniel High student teams up with Clemson University to study diversity in music streaming services Read More Copyright © Clemson University School of Computing | 100 McAdams Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 (864) 656-3444 | Email Us