Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Science in Sport Business Management (MSBM) Explore the Business of Sport in a Top-Ranked Sport Management Program Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Business Department(s) DeVos Sport Bus Mgmt 24 Months In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Combine Theory and Practice to Succeed in the Sports Industry The DeVos Sport Business Management Program is one of the nation’s top-ranked programs. It’s also one of the only programs that place an emphasis on diversity, moral, ethical and social issues in sports. We’re committed to developing professionals who have critical sports business management knowledge and skills, a commitment to using sport to improve life in society, well-developed leadership abilities, and uncompromising ethical standards. Through an integrative “living classroom,” you’ll complete a comprehensive academic schedule that keeps your cohort of students together throughout the two-year coursework. Curriculum encompasses UCF College of Business Administration core classes, unique sport business classes and other specialized classes that emphasize the social impact of sport. You’ll have an opportunity to work on real-world projects and programs alongside your peers while building a network of contacts. This experience provides you with a wide range of business skills that help give you a competitive edge. Many sport business graduates go on to work in leadership roles at top industries, including intercollegiate and professional sport, event and facilities management, corporate and international sport, and marketing. Request Information Highlights In 2019, SportBusiness International named the DeVos Program as one of the top 10 graduate level degree sport business program. Annual class trips through fundraising opportunities with ESPN World Wide of Sports, Daytona International Speedway, Orlando Magic, Orlando City Soccer, Tropical Rugby 7’s, Under Armour All-American Football Camp, Arnold Palmer Invitational and more. Application Deadlines Fall (Domestic Applicants) February 1 Fall (International) January 15 Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Leadership in Sport Theory, research and practice of leadership in sports organizations. Special attention is given to contemporary leadership issues with leaders of the sports industry leading many of the discussions. Examines the multiple roles that leaders can help sports organizations play in serving the community, including both traditional and creative philanthropy and case studies of model community service programs of sports teams, leagues and college athletics departments. Lab Required. Moral and Ethical Issues in Sport Broad understanding of the moral and ethical issues in sport including a special focus on the responsibility of governing bodies and decision-makers in sport including faculty, coaches, athletic directors, presidents, league commissioners, the NCAA and the media. Issues will also include equity for women and people of color, academic abuses of student-athletes at the high school and college level, illegal recruitment of student-athletes, use of performance enhancing drugs, agents and gambling. Business of Sport Media History of how media has evolved from radio, network television and magazines into the multi-dimensional world of regional and national cable, the internet, the networks, huge rights fees and other new elements. The way sports media provides so much of the revenue for sports as an entertainment industry has made it the anchor for the sports industry. View All Sport Business Management Courses That You'll Take Sport Business Management Skills You'll Learn Understand the relationship between sport and social issues, the business of sport both nationally and internationally, and how the legal system impacts sports business Embrace the strengths and complexities of a diverse workforce and the importance of multicultural marketing as an actual component of overall business strategy Develop and implement integrated business and marketing plans Design and carry out research necessary to make successful management and business decisions Prepare to lead organizations to be a corporate good citizen in the community Career Opportunities General Manager Athletic Director Sports Promotion Sports Marketing Manager Sports Agent Baseball Scout Football Coach Event Management Admission Requirements The sport business management master’s degree at UCF accepts applications throughout the year. However, admission will be granted only in the fall for this specialized program. This program consists of a cohort of about 25 students who complete the program in five consecutive semesters. The DeVos Sport Business Management Program admits students based on their total package of academic success, professional and community service experience, commitment to teamwork, and other factors that show the admissions committee whether the applicant is a good fit for the DeVos Program. Request Information To apply, submit the general graduate admissions requirements, as well as the following items by the deadline: GPA: 3.0 3 letters of recommendation Official transcripts A current resume A video essay Some professional experience preferred Essay for DeVos Program All finalists are required to have an interview Competitive GMAT or GRE score Request Information College of Business News Check out more stories Business & Economy Wriggle Brew ‘Worm Tea’ Fertilizer Wins at UCF’s 2022 Joust New Venture Competition Economics student Samuel Baker won for his concept, which also doubles as a pesticide. Business & Economy Metro Forecast: Florida Economy Must Weather ‘Monetary Policy Hurricane’ to Avoid Recession With the Federal Reserve making its first interest rate hike in three years in March, UCF’s Institute for Economic Forecasting predicts the 0.25% increase will… Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. Student Life Student Research Week: The Greater Good Ahead of Selfish Interests is Focus of Marketing Study Ph.D. student looks at how self-compassion creates longer lasting positive effects for donors in addition to fostering high prosocial behavior. Degree Search College of Business programs Masters Sport Business Management (MSBM) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Sport Business Management (MSBM) program offered at UCF. Loading... × This program is the only sport business management program emphasizing diversity, moral, ethical, and social issues in sports, as well as focusing on sports leadership while giving the students a rigorous business education. The DeVos Sport Business Management Program is ranked as one of the top five programs in America by the Wall Street Journal, New York Times, and ESPN the Magazine. In 2015, the Program was named the number two program in the world by SportsBusiness International. Students are required to perform 21 hours of service per semester for a Central Florida organization that works with underserved youth. Students will also spend a minimum of two weeks helping to rebuild homes in post-Katrina New Orleans. A major emphasis of the DeVos Program is to have our students leave understanding the power of sport to build communities in addition to learning strong business skills for a successful career in sports management. Students in the DeVos Sport Business Management master's program gain hands-on experience in the business of sports management, work in teams with fellow students on sports business projects from conception through implementation and develop a network in the sports industry. Graduates of the program will understand the relationship between sport and social issues, the business of sport both nationally and internationally, and how the legal system impacts sports business. They will understand and embrace the strengths and complexities of a diverse workforce and the importance of multicultural marketing as an actual component of overall business strategy and will be prepared to lead organizations to be corporate good citizens in the community. Graduates will also be able to develop and implement integrated business and marketing plans, optimize the use of the technology, and design and carry out research necessary to make successful management and business decisions. Job opportunities for graduates in sport management include areas such as intercollegiate and professional sport, event and facilities management, corporate and international sport, and marketing. The DeVos Sport Business Management Program develops professionals who have critical sports business management knowledge and skills, a commitment to using sport to improve life in society, well-developed leadership abilities, and uncompromising ethical standards. Students in the Sport Business Management program have the opportunity to be admitted to the MBA program and receive an MBA as an additional degree. Please note that a student admitted to the MSBM program with provisional admission to the MBA program will take 13.5 hours of coursework in the first semester, 12 of which are coursework hours that count toward both the MSBM and MBA degrees. The student must earn a grade of B (3.0) or higher in all MBA courses taken, otherwise, the student's provisional admission to the MBA program will be revoked. The DeVos Sport Business Management MSBM program requires a minimum of 45 credit hours beyond the bachelor's degree. The program includes 18 credit hours of professional core courses, 24 credit hours of sport business management core courses, and 3 credit hours of an internship. This is a nonthesis program in which the internship serves as a capstone experience. Total Credit Hours Required: 45 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree The two-year full-time curriculum includes the College of Business Administration's foundation core; selected required courses from the college's professional core for solid business skills and knowledge; and required sport business management courses that will create a unique knowledge base for our students. Degree Requirements Required Courses 45 Total Credits No Rules Professional Core 18 Total Credits Complete the following: MAN6245 - Organizational Behavior and Development (3) MAR6466 - Strategic Supply Chain and Operations Management (3) ACG6425 - Managerial Accounting Analysis (3) FIN6406 - Strategic Financial Management (3) ECO6416 - Applied Business Research Tools (3) ECO6115 - Economic Analysis of the Firm (3) Sport Business Management Core 24 Total Credits Complete the following: SPB6506 - Moral and Ethical Issues in Sport (1.5) SPB6606 - Diversity and Social Issues in Sport Business Management (1.5) SPB6725 - Leadership in Sport (1.5) SPB6716C - Strategic Sport Marketing (3) SPB6406 - Sport Law (3) SPB6806 - Business of Sport Media (3) SPB6735 - The Global Environment of Sport (3) SPB6715C - Professional Selling in Sport (1.5) SPB6706 - Sport Analytics (3) GEB6156 - The Business of Hip-Hop Innovation and Entrepreneurship (3) Internship 3 Total Credits Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: An internship equivalent to three credit hours with a designated sport organization is required. It would normally be a full-time, 15-week internship taken after the completion of all academic courses. The internship is an independent learning activity that takes place in authentic settings (settings are professional sports, collegiate sports, etc.) in which students must apply, reflect upon, and refine knowledge and skills acquired in the program. MBA Option: 51 Total Credit Hours Required 0 Total Credits If accepted into the MBA program, students must complete MAN 6721 -Applied Strategy and Business Policy (3 credit hours) (grade of B- or better is required for MAN 6721) and MAR 6816 - Strategic Marketing Management (3 credit hours). Please note that a student admitted to the MSBM program with provisional admission to the MBA program will take 13 credit hours of coursework in the first semester, 12 of which are courses that count toward both the MSBM and MBA degrees. The student must earn a grade of B (3.0) or higher in all MBA courses taken, otherwise, the student's provisional admission to the MBA program will be revoked. Independent Learning 0 Total Credits All students are required to participate in an internship in professional sport settings in which students must apply, reflect upon, and refine knowledge and skills acquired throughout the curriculum. Grand Total Credits: 45 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. Official, competitive GMAT or GRE score taken within the last five years. Three professional letters of recommendation. Essay (for details, see https://business.ucf.edu/degree/masters-sports-business-management-msbm/) Résumé. Video Essay All finalists will be required to have an in-person interview; the only exception shall be for prospective international students who will be permitted to have a Skype interview. A computer-based score of 233 (or 91 internet-based score) on the Test of English as a Foreign language (TOEFL) if an applicant is from a country where English is not the official language, or if an applicant's degree is not from an accredited U.S. institution, or if an applicant did not earn a degree in a country where English is the only official language or a university where English is the only official language of instruction. Although we prefer the TOEFL, we will accept IELTS scores of 7.0. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. We admit students based on their total package of academic success, professional and community service experience, commitment to teamwork, and other factors that show the admissions committee if the applicant is a good fit for the DeVos program. Application Deadlines Sport Business Management MSBM *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Feb 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida