Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Student Life Date June 7, 2021 2021-06-07 Media Contact Jessica Tabak [email protected] 401-863-1632 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Tara Srinivas: Examining the causes of a rare neurodevelopmental condition After postponing her plans for a year due to the pandemic, recent Brown graduate and Fulbright fellow Tara Srinivas will travel to Spain to research how epigenetic factors may influence neurodevelopment in Rett syndrome. Brown Class of 2020 graduate Tara Srinivas has won a 2021-22 Fulbright award to conduct neurodevelopment research at the Josep Carreras Leukaemia Research Institute in Spain. She is pictured here at the University of Cambridge, U.K., where she is currently completing a master's in physiology, development and neuroscience. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — For Fulbright winner Tara Srinivas, the second time was the charm. The Class of 2020 Brown graduate first applied to the flagship international fellowship program during her senior year, with the hope of conducting neurodevelopment research at the Josep Carreras Leukaemia Research Institute, a cutting-edge research center located outside of Barcelona, Spain. She was successful, but the COVID-19 pandemic put a wrench in her plans: Because of international travel restrictions and public health protocols, her fellowship period would be cut from the typical year to just five months. “I just knew that I wouldn’t be able to get my research project done in that time,” Srinivas said. Without the option to defer, Srinivas took a gamble. She turned down the award, proposed the same project for the 2021–22 cycle, and crossed her fingers while embarking upon a master’s in physiology, development and neuroscience at the University of Cambridge in the U.K. The wait was nerve-wracking, but Srinivas’s risk paid off when she was named a winner, once again, this spring. “It’s surreal that it’s finally happening,” she said. “I’m beyond happy.” At the institute, Srinivas will use patient-derived stem cells to study the role that epigenetic factors — elements (in this case, RNA molecules) that influence the expression of genes without altering their DNA sequences — play in Rett syndrome, a rare neurodevelopmental condition that affects brain development. “There’s so much left to explore in epigenetics,” Srinivas said. “My hope is that using it to study Rett syndrome will contribute to our understanding of the condition and help researchers develop new therapies, if needed and desired by patients.” “At Brown, I learned so much about how to become an independent researcher. I’m looking forward to expanding upon these skills while in Spain — to continuing to learn how to formulate and test my own hypotheses and to employ new techniques in the lab.” Tara Srinivas Fulbright Winner, Brown Class of 2020 Graduate Tweet this quote The project will build upon her studies at Brown, where she concentrated in neuroscience and served as an undergraduate researcher in the laboratory of Dr. Eric Morrow, whose work seeks to better understand the genetic factors that contribute to conditions on the autism spectrum. “At Brown, I learned so much about how to become an independent researcher,” she said. “I’m looking forward to expanding upon these skills while in Spain — to continuing to learn how to formulate and test my own hypotheses and to employ new techniques in the lab.” Srinivas’s Fulbright fellowship will also offer her an invaluable opportunity to live and work within a culture that she has been studying for nearly a decade, she said. She began studying Spanish language as a middle schooler, but her interest in the language and culture of Spanish-speaking countries deepened when, as a high schooler, she had the opportunity to visit Costa Rica, Ecuador and Argentina with her family. “It was the first time I had ever used Spanish outside of the classroom,” said the Broomfield, Colorado, native. “I just became enamored with the power of language, and the power of Spanish in particular.” While at Brown, Srinivas deepened her understanding of the language and culture of Spanish-speaking countries, pursuing coursework in the Hispanic studies department while completing her neuroscience degree. She said that spending a year in Spain as a Fulbright fellow will allow her to heighten her Spanish language skills while developing a nuanced appreciation for the country’s diverse culture — including in Barcelona, where as many people speak Catalan as they do Spanish. “Being able to really immerse myself in the language will be an amazing opportunity,” Srinivas said. “And I’m really excited to learn more about Spanish culture from the community I’ll live in and from fellow Fulbrighters who are studying the humanities and arts.” After completing her Fulbright, Srinivas plans to begin medical school. She said she looks forward to seeing firsthand the impact that scientific research has on patients — something she first witnessed when shadowing Morrow on his clinical rounds during her time at Brown. “Getting to meet families who are affected by these conditions really helped me explore the questions: Why am I in the lab? Why am I studying these conditions? And what does my research mean to these patients and their families?” she said. “The impact of that experience is definitely what drives me to continue this research now.” 27 current and recent Brown student win 2021-22 Fulbright scholarships This year’s student Fulbright winners will begin teaching and research assignments in 17 countries around the world in fall of 2021. 2021-22 Fulbright Scholars at Brown Tags Awards and Fellowships The College Related news: Student Life Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics April 20, 2022 For 10 years, a student-run organization has taken to the air, delighting audiences with circus-inspired performances on trapeze, aerial silk, lyra and more. Read Article Open details for Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics Student Life Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community November 8, 2021 Brehan Brady — a self-described working-class kid from Pawtucket who transferred to Brown from the Community College of Rhode Island — joins other student veterans in forging a new path after their military service. Read Article Open details for Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community Student Life For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities November 4, 2021 With classroom experiences across the Open Curriculum and support from the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship, Perez built on her own experiences to launch EmpowerU, a startup that connects low-income students to higher education resources. Read Article Open details for For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Tara Srinivas: Examining the causes of a rare neurodevelopmental condition Open details for Tara Srinivas: Examining the causes of a rare neurodevelopmental condition Bookmark this Page