Jackson School of Geosciences Subsurface, Surface & Life Course List About Chair’s Welcome Faculty Resource Hub Faculty Affairs DGS Office Links Team Quick Links Additional Resources (JSG) University Offices Diversity & Inclusion Timeline Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam DGS Award Recipients Visit the Department Contacts Undergraduate Degrees Offered Admissions Internal Transfers Advising Courses & Catalogs Undergraduate Research Getting Started Current Research Positions Labs with Research Opportunities Beyond the Jackson School Student Research Stories Resources and Funding for Research Sharing Your Results Research Friday Jackson Scholars Program Champions of Diversity Program Honors Program Financial Support Career Services Graduate Admissions Degrees Offered Financial Support Find a Supervisor Science Y’all Graduate Student Opportunities Research Lithosphere & Deep Earth Subsurface, Surface & Life Water, Climate & Environment Laboratories, Research Facilities & Equipment Collections Computing Experimental Petrology & Mineral Physics Experimental Sedimentology Geochemistry Geophysics Hydrogeology Imaging Radiogenic Isotopes & Geochronology Shared Facilities Stable Isotopes Events JSG Events Calendar DeFord Lecture Series WCE Seminar Series Geophysics Seminar Series Soft Rock Seminar Series UT Paleontology Seminar Series LDE Seminar Series News People Faculty Research Staff Postdocs Graduate Students Staff Skip to main content Jackson School of Geosciences The University of Texas at Austin Department of Geological Sciences About Chair’s Welcome Faculty Resource Hub Diversity & Inclusion Timeline Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam DGS Award Recipients Visit the Department Contacts Undergraduate Degrees Offered Admissions Internal Transfers Advising Courses & Catalogs Undergraduate Research Jackson Scholars Program Champions of Diversity Program Honors Program Financial Support Career Services Graduate Admissions Degrees Offered Financial Support Find a Supervisor Science Y’all Graduate Student Opportunities Research Lithosphere & Deep Earth Subsurface, Surface & Life Water, Climate & Environment Laboratories, Research Facilities & Equipment News Events JSG Events Calendar DeFord Lecture Series Master’s Saturday WCE Seminar Series Geophysics Seminar Series Soft Rock Seminar Series UT Paleontology Seminar Series LDE Seminar Series People Faculty Research Staff Postdocs Graduate Students Staff Menu Home Undergraduate Undergraduate Research Undergraduate Research The Jackson School is buzzing with cutting edge Earth Science research. As an undergraduate, you are invited to become part of the work that changes the way we think about our planet. Whether you’d like to follow your own curiosity or join an existing project, there are many ways to get involved. Conducting research as an undergraduate is a great way to learn new skills, explore your curiosity, and join a community of researchers to learn about how science is done. The earlier you start the better! There are research opportunities available for students at all level, from freshman through to senior year. Follow the links below to find out more! For a broad guide to undergraduate research, check out this Nature article. Getting Started Current Positions Labs with Opportunities Research Beyond JSG Student Stories Funding Sharing Results Research Friday Conducting independent research for course credit You can arrange to conduct a research project for course credit. The first step is getting in touch with a researcher within the Jackson School (Department of Geological Sciences, Bureau of Economic Geology, or University of Texas Institute for Geophysics) or across campus. You arrange with the researcher how you will earn the credit. Completing an undergraduate thesis The Jackson School offers programs where you perform research and write a thesis: Jackson School honors program Jackson Scholars If you want to complete a thesis, but are not enrolled in these programs, you can still conduct and write-up independent research, but not technically complete a thesis. Consider taking Curiosity to Question, or contacting potential research supervisors to discuss this. Participating in research Sometimes, there are opportunities where you can contribute to ongoing research at the Jackson School to gain exposure to field or lab methods. In cases where field work is involved, you are expected to contribute to field work but your room, board and travel are paid for. To learn how research opportunities, browse our Current Research Opportunities as well as the Research Overview at the bottom of the webpage. Don’t forget, Research Friday means you can dedicate every Friday to conducting or learning about research. In some cases, you can get paid to work in a lab on campus or to conduct research at the Jackson School. You can also be paid for research you do through an NSF REU with researchers outside of the university. Summer research There are different types of summer research experiences with different degrees of formality. NSF Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) Sites program. The NSF funds and provides information about many summer research experiences through the REU Sites program. The programs take place during the summer months and can be at a location in the US or internationally. Applications must be made through the host institution. Stipends are available. Conducting research within Jackson School courses Some courses at DGS emphasize research methods and research design: Curiosity to Question Proposal Writing (GEO 191) Many more courses include significant independent projects as part of the coursework: Physical Hydrology (GEO 382S) Ecohydrology (GEO 391) Transitions in the History of Life (GEO 322J/397L) Undergraduate Degrees Offered Admissions Internal Transfers Advising Courses & Catalogs Undergraduate Research Getting Started Current Research Positions Labs with Research Opportunities Beyond the Jackson School Student Research Stories Resources and Funding for Research Sharing Your Results Research Friday Jackson Scholars Program Champions of Diversity Program Honors Program Financial Support Career Services Department of Geological Sciences Mailing Address Department of Geological Sciences 2275 Speedway Stop C9000 Austin, TX 78712-1722 Phone (512) 471-5172 Make a Gift Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Career Services Apply Now Research Units Bureau of Economic Geology Institute for Geophysics Helpful Links UT Austin UT Direct Emergency Information IT Help JSG Profiles Contact Us © 2022 Department of Geological Sciences, Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader