Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Learning Resources » Note-Taking and Test Strategies » PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy Set Navigation title in component Note-Taking and Test Strategies The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy PLAN allows students who may be visually inclined to record their readings in a map format. If you have tried SQ4R or another textbook reading strategy, but it didn’t quite click, then try adopting PLAN, a simple four-step program that allows you to place main concepts, definitions, people, places, and times into a physical representation and catalogue. PLAN also forces you to imagine the information in your textbook before you approach the text, place information in the context of what you already know, and then search out any holes in your knowledge. PLAN is a useful strategy for those students who need to see the connections between ideas, and rewriting and reorganizing your notes has been proven to improve recall. Step 1: Predict Step one entails scanning your text and looking for the following information to make a “predictive map” of the text’s contents: Bolded, italicized, or defined terms Key people, places, or time periods Charts, graphs, or any other visual representation of data Headings, subheadings, or organizational titles Examples Summaries or study questions Using this information, you will draw a map of what you expect the chapter, article, or essay to discuss. Connect the ideas using lines or arrows, and remember to designate main ideas and smaller ideas. Step 2: Locate After drawing your map, determine which information you already know, and which information you will have to find when you read the textbook more thoroughly. Note missing information with a question mark, and note completed information with a checkmark. You can fill in information you already know during this step, or wait to compare with the textbook. Step 3: Add After reading the text, close your book and try answer the questions remaining in your prediction map. Try to include as much information as possible for each topic, but also try to determine which ideas were the most prominent or important in your reading. Step 4: Note After filling in your missing information, continue to develop and prepare the information. In other words, determine how you will use the information: will you have a multiple choice or essay exam, an assigned chapter summary, or a group presentation? Different assignments will require you to use the information differently, and Step 4 allows you to organize your notes into a summary paragraph, or to practice recreating your map from memory to prepare for a multiple choice or fill-in-the-blank exam. You may also decide that your predictive map was inaccurate; during step four you can reorganize the relation Additional Ways to Apply PLAN Visit an Academic Coach: Your coach can help you organize your note taking, and you can do practice sessions to model effective note-taking with an Academic Coach! Quiz yourself using PLAN: Try to read one chapter without PLAN and one chapter with PLAN. Have a friend or Academic Coach quiz you on both chapters. You’ll be learning the material and seeing whether PLAN works for you! Modify the Steps: Do Step 2 in your book margins and underline where everything is. Try reciting the material with a mnemonic or “memory house” strategy. Learn more about memorization strategies with your Academic Coach! Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top