Skip to content Clemson University Begin With Clemson Stories Home Emily Martin Hoang Nam Huynh Roy Jones Marena Fleming Joe Mari Maja Clemson University Home Academics Research About Clemson Degree Programs Clemson University Academics Research About Clemson Degree Programs Menu Close Begin With Determination Roy Jones Learn how one man’s work ethic created pathways for hundreds of educators to make a difference in Title I schools nationwide. Watch Roy’s Story xxx × “When I left home and went to college, that’s when I learned what mentoring really meant. I found myself surrounded by the most incredible mentors — folks providing guidance both academically and personally. Now, at Clemson, we’re building mentors for the next generation of students and classrooms.” Find your calling The mission of the Call Me MISTER® (Mentors Instructing Students Toward Effective Role Models) initiative is to increase the pool of available teachers from a broader, more diverse background, particularly among South Carolina’s lowest-performing elementary schools. Student participants are largely selected from underserved, socioeconomically disadvantaged and educationally at-risk communities. It’s a program Jones built at Clemson and the embodiment of his nearly 50-year journey to invest in next-generation student-educators. Lead with purpose Jones started college in 1968 — a time of great social upheaval that also brought unprecedented opportunities for students like him. Now executive director of Clemson’s Call Me MISTER® educational mentoring program, Jones has taken those early experiences as part of a cohort of young Black and brown first-generation college students and turned it into a growing educational mentorship program unlike anything else in the country. More than 50% of all accredited teacher education programs in South Carolina are Call Me MISTER®-affiliated institutions. Pursue uncharted territory Jones’ mother and father never finished high school. And even though the house Jones grew up in was located directly across the street from a private liberal arts college, no one in his family had ever actually stepped foot on a college campus until the day they arrived at the University of Massachusetts for his freshman year. He earned his college degree — the first of three — in education and found himself inspired to go even further. “Find your calling. I found it by learning how to work with people and sorting out what was important. I had to find my calling, and I found it in education.” Degree Programs Nationally Recognized Education Programs Call Me MISTER® is a nationally recognized program that has expanded to nine other states in addition to South Carolina since 2004. First-Generation Student Success Clemson University was recognized by NASPA’s Center for First-Generation Student Success as a First Forward Institution through the work of the Clemson FIRST Program, designed to support first-generation college students. Clemson FIRST 90% Come from S.C. Public Schools 90% of Clemson’s Call Me MISTER® students come from South Carolina public schools, and 85 percent of graduates are still teaching in them more than a decade later, often in Title 1 schools. Invest in the future Jones earned his Bachelor of Arts in education in 1972 from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Five years later, in 1977, he was awarded a Master of Arts in educational psychology from Atlanta University. And by 1981, he had his Ed.D. in higher education administration from the University of Georgia. Jones relentlessly pursued his education, but as important, he actively sought out ways to translate even his earliest educational experiences as a first-generation college student into similar opportunities for those who would follow in his footsteps. “I got my master’s in educational psychology because I was disturbed by the whole notion that Black students were inferior to white students.” Make real change Jones secured the role of executive director for Clemson University’s Call Me MISTER® (Mentors Instructing Students Toward Effective Role-models) program in 2004. Nearly two decades later, his leadership has literally changed the face of public education for a generation of South Carolina students and beyond. Whereas at one time a South Carolina K-12 student might never have a male teacher in the classroom — much less a male teacher of color — Call Me MISTER® has graduated nearly 300 young men into the state’s classrooms. Call Me MISTER® resulted in a 40% increase in the number of male African American teachers in S.C. public elementary schools. “It’s important for students to have teachers who look like them, and that’s a big part of why Call Me MISTER® has resonated nationally.” Call Me MISTER® Give back to community One of the biggest successes of the Call Me MISTER® program is how true to form it has been, Jones says. MISTERs take their degrees and experiences to give back in service to the state. They are also sustaining those gifts year after year by staying in Title 1 schools with high percentages of economically disadvantaged students and the greatest need for highly qualified educators. “What continues to blow my mind is how much the MISTERs have sustained themselves in the classroom and in the profession, supported by national and state data. I’ve got at least 85% of the MISTERs that began in 2004 up until last year still in the classroom. The other 15% — most of those are college professors or principals and assistant principals.” Alumni Career Outcomes Through mentorship, Roy Jones discovered what it meant to be a transformational educator, and he took that vision and grew it into one of the most renowned educational initiatives in the country. Through mentorship, Roy Jones discovered what it meant to be a transformational educator, and he took that vision and grew it into one of the most renowned educational initiatives in the country. Stay Connected With Clemson Want to stay connected with Clemson? Request emails, follow us on social media or see the latest in news. Other Stories Begin With Community Emily Martin Social Media Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube REQUEST ADMISSIONS INFORMATION Copyright © 2022 Clemson University | Clemson, South Carolina 29634