[^] Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Clinicians EHS Professionals Academics Executives Gov Employees More FAQs Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Attendee Portal Login Harvard Chan Home Division of Policy Translation and Leadership Development Programs for Individuals Programs for Organizations News & Resources Request Information About ECPE Executive and Continuing Professional Education > News & Resources Programs for Individuals Custom Programs for Organizations Creating High Impact Tools to Improve Clinical Effectiveness Improving Health Care Performance Using Lean and the Theory of Constraints Optimizing Value Based Care: Advanced Strategies for Population Health Management Using Evidence-Based Nutrition Science: Achieving Healthier Organizations and Communities Frequently Asked Questions Faculty Directory Topic Areas Architecture, Design, and Construction Culture of Health Emergency Planning and Management Environmental Health and Safety Health Information Technology Health Policy & Organizational Strategy Health, Well-being, & Nutrition Hospital and Health Care Administration Leadership & Management Occupational Health and Safety Outcomes Research Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology Project Management Public Health Education Radiation Safety and Protection Research Improvement & Innovation Risk Communication and Analysis Uncategorized News & Resources The Changing Face of Worker Safety, Health, and Well-Being in a Post-Pandemic Future It’s not a surprise: the COVID-19 pandemic has changed worker health and safety in permanent ways. From the rise of remote work and manufacturing automation to the effects of burnout and unsafe working environments, we experience work differently. For workers who can do their jobs remotely, they’ve still been able to maintain a modicum of … Continue reading “The Changing Face of Worker Safety, Health, and Well-Being in a Post-Pandemic Future” Posted on March 7, 2022 March 7, 2022 Categories Health Policy & Organizational Strategy, Leadership & Management, Occupational Health and SafetyTags whw, whwo To Meet Future Needs, Health Care Leaders Must Look at the Data (Science) As a health care leader or clinician, do you play an active role in your organization’s data science strategy? If not, you may miss out on important opportunities to help improve value, workflow, and patient outcomes. Today, health care organizations have access to more information than ever before—from emergency department records to radiology reports to … Continue reading “To Meet Future Needs, Health Care Leaders Must Look at the Data (Science)” Posted on March 3, 2022 March 8, 2022 Categories Health Information TechnologyTags AIH Why Leadership in Mental Health Care Is Needed Now More Than Ever—and How to Implement Change The COVID-19 pandemic has profoundly impacted population mental health. Among the many negative impacts, it has led to sickness and bereavement, increased uncertainty, decreased human connection, and lost opportunities for work and education. However, it has led to important discoveries, too. Societally, we have a greater acknowledgement that mental health is critically important and that … Continue reading “Why Leadership in Mental Health Care Is Needed Now More Than Ever—and How to Implement Change” Posted on February 16, 2022 Categories Health Policy & Organizational Strategy, Hospital and Health Care Administration, Leadership & Management, Public Health EducationTags mhf Exploring Opportunities for Women on Boards: 7 Tips to Help Jump-Start Your Efforts If you’re a female executive in the health care field looking toward the next phase of your career, you might want to explore opportunities to secure a board directorship. This can be a natural progression to take your extensive management and leadership experience to the next level, according to Ellen Zane, past president and chief … Continue reading “Exploring Opportunities for Women on Boards: 7 Tips to Help Jump-Start Your Efforts” Posted on February 1, 2022 February 1, 2022 Categories Hospital and Health Care Administration, Leadership & ManagementTags wex, wob It’s More Important Than Ever for Physician Leaders to Develop Financial Literacy—Here’s How to Start Financial literacy will always be an important skill for a physician leader. But now, because of the ongoing challenges of COVID-19 and the unique demands it imposes on budgets, the skill set is even more critical. Understanding how resources are allocated and how to negotiate and self-advocate during financial discussions has never been more important. … Continue reading “It’s More Important Than Ever for Physician Leaders to Develop Financial Literacy—Here’s How to Start” Posted on December 14, 2021 Categories Health Information Technology, Health Policy & Organizational Strategy, Hospital and Health Care Administration, Leadership & Management, Project ManagementTags hfm The Art of Managing Conflict and Cultivating Influence as Health Care Leaders It’s a stereotype with a grain of truth: leaders are often promoted for past performance, not future potential. That notion certainly rings true in health care, considering how many clinicians are regularly promoted to positions of leadership because of their clinical skills. When things don’t work out, though, it’s less often about their clinical performance … Continue reading “The Art of Managing Conflict and Cultivating Influence as Health Care Leaders” Posted on December 14, 2021 Categories Health Information Technology, Hospital and Health Care Administration, Leadership & Management, Occupational Health and SafetyTags cfn Risk Analysis in the COVID-19 Pandemic: Weighing the Cost and Benefits of Vaccines and Masks Every single day, people take risks. They drive in cars and fly in airplanes, expose themselves to environmental pollution and so much more. While some of these public health risks are so integrated into our lives that we’ve stopped worrying about them, other risks—such as engaging in activities that increase your likelihood of contracting COVID-19—can … Continue reading “Risk Analysis in the COVID-19 Pandemic: Weighing the Cost and Benefits of Vaccines and Masks” Posted on November 7, 2021 February 7, 2022 Categories Emergency Planning and Management, Environmental Health and Safety, Health Information Technology, Health Policy & Organizational Strategy, Health, Well-being, & Nutrition, Hospital and Health Care Administration, Occupational Health and Safety, Public Health Education, Research Improvement & Innovation, Risk Communication and AnalysisTags risk Change Management: Why It’s So Important, and So Challenging, in Health Care Environments Medical professionals excel at finding solutions in patient care. “We are great at coming up with the ‘next big thing’: we have brilliant people who are at the front lines of innovation,” says Louise Keogh Weed, program director of the Leadership Strategies for Evolving Health Care Executives program and a practice transformation specialist at the … Continue reading “Change Management: Why It’s So Important, and So Challenging, in Health Care Environments” Posted on September 20, 2021 March 1, 2022 Categories Leadership & Management How Do You Communicate Uncertainty and Promote Public Health — During COVID-19 and Beyond? Despite a vast amount of research, there are many aspects of COVID-19 that continue to be perplexing. From the more transmissible variants of the virus to the necessity of mask-wearing after vaccination, the protocols of the pandemic continue to evolve — and inherent uncertainty about the virus will continue. Even when officials delivering information are … Continue reading “How Do You Communicate Uncertainty and Promote Public Health — During COVID-19 and Beyond?” Posted on July 20, 2021 July 20, 2021 Categories Emergency Planning and Management, Environmental Health and Safety, Public Health Education, Risk Communication and Analysis Designing Accessible Laboratory Spaces for People with Disabilities If you’re an architect, engineer, or lab manager involved in facilities development for the medical, biotechnology, basic sciences, or pharmaceutical field, it’s important to know how to design laboratories that will be safe and accessible for people with a range of disabilities. The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) is a set of legal standards that … Continue reading “Designing Accessible Laboratory Spaces for People with Disabilities” Posted on June 14, 2021 June 15, 2021 Categories Architecture, Design, and Construction, Environmental Health and Safety, Occupational Health and Safety Posts navigation Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 … Page 9 Next » Inside Health This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Harvard Chan Executive and Continuing Professional Education on Twitter Explore topics such as #ergonomics, ventilation, and noise reduction in Comprehensive Industrial Hygiene, taking pl… https://t.co/BdNZzmA9ty As @HarvardChanSPH celebrates its graduates this week at commencement, we wanted to share some recent photos of ECP… https://t.co/1Nmyyb0gCA Only 10 days left to enroll in Leading in Health Systems! Register today to gain the knowledge and tools needed to… https://t.co/NsXlA6vXOI Curious about Measurement, Design, and Analysis Methods for #HealthOutcomesResearch? Download the program brochure… https://t.co/nDTX26bhqf Information For: Clinicians EHS Professionals Academics Executives Gov Employees More Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Executive and Continuing Professional Education 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 617-432-2100 contedu@hsph.harvard.edu Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Harvard Chan Home Harvard University Home Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College