Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF EDUCATION COLLEGE OF EDUCATION EDUCATION Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 EDUC 170 Mathematics for Elementary School Teachers (5) NW Covers basic concepts of numbers and operations. Emphasizes problem solving, communication of mathematical ideas, and analysis of sources of difficultly in learning/teaching these concepts. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 170 EDUC 171 Math for Upper Elementary and Middle Grades Teachers (5) NW Covers concepts of numbers and operations, measurement, geometry, and statistics and probability typically taught in the upper elementary and middle grades. Emphasizes problem solving, modeling, communication of mathematical ideas, and analysis of sources of difficulty in learning these concepts. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 171 EDUC 200 Special Topics in Education, Learning, and Society (3-5, max. 15) I&S C. DAVIS, J. WILLIAMSON-LOTT Critical examination of current research and practice in education, learning, and society. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 200 EDUC 205 Selected Readings - An Introduction to Education in the United States (3-5, max. 15) I&S C. DAVIS, J. WILLIAMSON-LOTT Introduction to the United States education system, including the theoretical concepts of learning and historical framework that guide practice, policy, and teacher preparation. Explores issues and questions pertaining to United States schools through directed readings, dialogue, individual projects, and group projects. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 205 EDUC 210 Current Issues in Education (5, max. 15) I&S Covers a current issue and provides the opportunity to read and discuss educational issues with other students and faculty and to learn of opportunities in the College of Education programs. Issues vary by term and faculty. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 210 EDUC 211 Political Philosophy of Education (5) I&S Discusses education as an instrument essential to the production of good lives for individuals as well as social structures capable of facilitating such lives. The driving assumption is that contemporary societies are alarmingly incapable of promoting happiness, and much of the discussion is dedicated to the role education might play in the social change needed to foster good lives for all. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 211 EDUC 215 Resilience and Wellness in College and Beyond (5) I&S James J. Mazza Students will learn skills to enhance their wellbeing in college and in their life in general. Particular focus will be given to skills that help people withstand common difficulties in life. Skills will include but will not be limited to mindfulness, emotion regulation, distress tolerance, and interpersonal effectiveness skills. Students will also learn about research underlying stress, resilience, and related skill areas. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 215 EDUC 216 Thriving on the Path to Happiness (5) I&S Jaclyn Michelle Lally, James J. Mazza Scientific theories for experiencing happiness. Develops behavioral strategies and skills for enhancing subjective well-being, interpersonal relationships, and opportunities for happiness. Continuation of the content in EDUC 215. Prerequisite: EDUC 215. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 216 EDUC 221 Education and the Playfield (3) I&S Examines the intersection of education and sport from early childhood to college experiences. Explores educational themes related to physical development, sport's influence on individual and community development, access to physical activities, equity and inclusion within the sports environment, and the role of sports in social change. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 221 EDUC 225 Introduction to Language, Education and Society (5) Phillip L. Markley Introduces core issues involved in language usage in education and how it plays an important role in not only education but our lives in general. Provides a broad view of language in education. Discussions and topics explore the role of language, usage and structure, variations, how children learn and influences from policy. Examines myths about languages and language in education. Recommended: LING 200. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 225 EDUC 231 Developing Youth through Sport and Physical Activity (5) Exploration of the influence of sport and physical activity to positively impact the lives of young people. The concept of 'Sports-Based Youth Development' will be introduced and how educators and leaders can proactively utilize athletics and activities to effectively build social-emotional and bio-physical skills in participants. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 231 EDUC 240 Introduction to Education (3) I&S Uses a socioecological developmental perspective to examine the complexities of the field of education and understand the distinctions between schooling and learning. Includes both teaching and learning in traditional school spaces and beyond. Special attention is paid to issues of educational justice and the systematic oppression found in many educational structures. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 240 EDUC 251 Seeking Educational Equity and Diversity (5) I&S, DIV Jondou Chen Introduces the need for and challenges in establishing educational equity and diversity. Discussions explore theories, historical trends, and ongoing debates. Readings draw from academic and popular sources, and class sessions include use of multimedia resources and experiential activities. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 251 EDUC 260 The Dream Project: Introduction to Mentoring Strategies (1, max. 8) I&S Introduces equity, access and social mobility, in relation to educational access and post-secondary planning. Frames communication techniques and identity reflection in the context of building skills for mentoring youth from diverse backgrounds. Students will learn about post-secondary planning basics including topics such as the financial aid process, editing personal statements, and writing resumes. Corequisite: EDUC 369. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 260 EDUC 280 Introduction to Education, Communities, and Organizations: Re-envisioning Education (3) Introduction to the disciplinary fields that constitute the Education, Communities, and Organizations (ECO) major: Human development, learning theory, equity studies, organizational studies, and community engagement. Provides an overview of the ECO major, including core courses, learning objectives, faculty, and community partners. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 280 EDUC 299 Education, Learning, and Society Colloquium (1) Provides a common learning experience where students learn from researchers and practicing educators about current pedagogical projects and theories. Fosters self-reflexive projects to build understanding of learning pathways. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 299 EDUC 300 Special Topics in Education, Learning, and Society (1-5, max. 20) Critical examination of current research and practice in education, learning, and society. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 300 EDUC 303 BI Leadership Academy II (1-2, max. 6) Second year leadership seminar for Brotherhood Initiative students. This course will serve as a critical examination of leadership theory and practice for civically engaged student leaders. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 303 EDUC 305 The Purpose of Public Schools in a Democracy (5) I&S Explores issues and questions pertaining to public schools in a democratic society through directed readings, dialogue, individual and group projects designed to engage students with a series of crucial issues in public schools. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 305 EDUC 310 Current Issues in Education (5, max. 20) I&S Covers a current issue and provides the opportunity to read and discuss educational issues with other students and faculty and to learn of opportunities in the College of Education programs. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 310 EDUC 315 Issues and Trends of Educational Theory, Research, and Practice (3-5, max. 15) I&S C. Davis, J. Williamson-Lott Examines issues and trends in the past and present that have influenced or may have the potential to influence the field of education. Research, discussion, and reading assignments enable students to analyze and understand topics such as charter schools, accountability, privatization, national standards, and other topics. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 315 EDUC 325 Histories of Self-Determination in Indigenous and Black Education (5) I&S, DIV Explores histories of Indigenous and Black self-determination in education, centering the educational experiences of Native and Black students pre- and post-settler colonialism and slavery in the U.S. through the twenty-first century. Conceptualizes decolonial, abolitionist, and culturally sustaining/revitalizing educational spaces for these and other historically and contemporarily marginalized students. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 325 EDUC 340 Culturally Sustaining Pedagogies: Teaching and Learning for Justice in a Changing World (3) I&S, DIV Django Paris Culturally sustaining pedagogy (CSP) offers a vision of school that seeks to perpetuate and foster linguistic, literate, and cultural pluralism as part of schooling for positive social transformation and revitalization. Reclaiming and reimagining schooling as a site to sustain Indigenous, Black, Latinx, Asian and Pacific Islander communities, including the ways these identities/memberships intersect multiple other identities. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 340 EDUC 351 Wellness and Education Achievement in Men of Color (5) I&S, DIV J. LOTT Provides an overview of various factors that shape the lives of men of color along the educational pipeline. Includes discussions on the tensions, contradictions, and possibilities. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 351 EDUC 360 The Dream Project: Mentoring and Education Policy (1, max. 8) I&S Discusses social justice topics in relation to mentoring high school students in the U.S. public education system. Expands upon mentoring skills gained in EDUC 260 through focusing on other systems of oppression and guest speakers. Includes diverse perspectives from educators, community partners, and relevant research. Supports students' mentorship on college readiness and other postsecondary pathways. Prerequisite: EDUC 260. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 360 EDUC 361 The Dream Project: Special Topics (1, max. 8) I&S Taylor, Twitchell Provides discussion and exploration of a single topic related to social mobility and access to higher education. Designed for students who have already completed EDUC or EDUC 360 who wish to examine a topic more closely. Corequisite: EDUC 369. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 361 EDUC 369 The Dream Project: High School Visits - Field Experience (1, max. 8) Involves weekly travel to local high schools, mentoring students from diverse backgrounds on college readiness and other postsecondary pathways. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 369 EDUC 370 Learning Within and Across Settings (5) Explores forms of learning that happen outside of the traditional classroom environment by engaging with learning theories across and within settings. Examines different environments to see how learning happens in community contexts. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 370 EDUC 375 Digital Media Literacy (3) VLPA Jennifer Gawronski Examines the role that media plays in our lives and communities and how digital technologies have impacted the media we consume, share, and create. Develops a personal framework for media literacy while also exploring how media literacy is taken up in a variety of learning settings. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 375 EDUC 401 Practicum in Community Service Activity (1-18, max. 20) I&S Tutoring and teaching experiences in a school or community service organization. Placement made according to participant interests and needs. Participation on a predetermined schedule plus scheduled orientation and debriefing sessions are required. Maximum of 20 credits from EDUC 401, EDUC 411, and EDUC 421 may apply towards graduation. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 401 EDUC 402 Practicum in Classroom Teaching and Management: Primary (1-18, max. 20) Tutoring and teaching experiences in a primary school setting (grades K-3). Placements made according to participant's interest and needs. Participation on a predetermined schedule plus scheduled orientation and debriefing sessions. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 402 EDUC 403 Practicum in Classroom Teaching and Management: Intermediate (1-18, max. 20) Tutoring and teaching experiences in an intermediate school setting (grades 4-8). Placements made according to participant's interest and needs. Participation on a predetermined schedule plus scheduled orientation and debriefing sessions. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 403 EDUC 404 Practicum in Classroom Teaching and Management: Secondary (1-18, max. 20) Tutoring and teaching experiences in an intermediate school setting (grades 6-12). Placements made according to participant's interest and needs. Participation on a predetermined schedule plus scheduled orientation and debriefing sessions. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 404 EDUC 411 Practicum in Community Service Activity (1-18, max. 20) VLPA Tutoring and teaching experiences in a school or community service organization. Placement made according to participant interests and needs. Participation on a predetermined schedule plus scheduled orientation and debriefing sessions are required. Maximum of 20 credits from EDUC 401, EDUC 411, and EDUC 421 may apply towards graduation. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 411 EDUC 421 Practicum in Community Service Activity (1-18, max. 20) VLPA/I&S Tutoring and teaching experiences in a school or community service organization. Placement made according to participant interests and needs. Participation on a predetermined schedule plus scheduled orientation and debriefing sessions are required. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 421 EDUC 451 The Role of Sport in Social Justice and Change (5) Examination of diversity themes (race, class, gender, sexuality and physical ability) together with historical sport events through a social justice framework. The role and influence of sport in our society will be examined, with a focus on influences of power, institutions, and systems. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 451 EDUC 472 Individuals, Groups, Organizations, and Institutions (5) I&S Examination of current research and practice in the field of individual, group, and organizational theory, with special focus on application to educational and community-based organizations. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 472 EDUC 473 Community Based Research and Practice (5) Focuses on understanding the principles and practices required for effective and equitable community-based research and practices in education. Prerequisite: EDUC 251. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 473 EDUC 481 Community-Based Capstone I (5) Prepares students for intensive community-based internship in EDUC 482 through creation of literature review and capstone project proposal. Prerequisite: EDUC 251; EDUC 370; EDUC 472; and EDUC 473. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 481 EDUC 482 Community-Based Capstone II (5) Intensive community-based internship experience, including the completion of a substantial product that contribute to the organization's mission and current initiatives. Prerequisite: EDUC 481. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 482 EDUC 483 Community-Based Capstone III (5) Culminating seminar to present community-based project, situate community work within course of study and prepare for graduate study and/or job market. Prerequisite: EDUC 482. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 483 EDUC 502 Advanced Practicum in Classroom Teaching and Management (1-18, max. 20) In-depth classroom practicum experiences to certificated teachers working on additional endorsements. Arrangements must be made prior to enrolling with an adviser in the Teacher Education Office. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 502 EDUC 503 Education, Equity, & Society Colloquium (1-2, max. 15) Jondou Chen Explores the meaning, purpose and significance of education in diverse community contexts with the aim of contributing to local and global educational equity and social change. Combines strong disciplinary foundations with applied study and research to uncover traditions of agency and collective action in education. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 503 EDUC 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Prerequisite: permission of faculty adviser and Graduate Program Coordinator. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 700 EDUC 750 Capstone Experience (2-10, max. 30) Provides advanced opportunities to integrate theory and practice through a capstone learning and research experience. Prerequisite: permission of faculty adviser and Graduate Program Coordinator. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 750 EDUC 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Prerequisite: permission of Supervisory Committee Chairperson and Graduate Program Coordinator. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 800 EDUC 801 Practice Doctorate Project/Capstone (*-) Prerequisite: permission of Supervisory Committee Chairperson and Graduate Program Coordinator. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDUC 801 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022