Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Intellectual Property Policies Brown University Intellectual Property Policies The Corporation of Brown University approved and adopted the Brown University Patent and Invention Policy on December 13, 2019. The Policy, effective immediately, replaces the University Patent and Invention Policy approved and adopted May 30, 2005. The Corporation approved and adopted updates to the Brown University Copyright Policy on October 16, 2020. The Policy, effective immediately, replaces the previous copyright policy, which was included in the University Patent and Invention Policy approved and adopted May 30, 2005. The Patent and Invention Policy is here. The Copyright Ownership and Use Policy is here. Explanation of Revisions Brown University’s Patent and Invention Policy (Patent Policy) was updated in 2019. The impetus for the Patent Policy update was primarily to address the following: Elimination of the 15% deduction prior to any distribution of royalties. The previous Patent Policy subtracted 15% from the gross proceeds of a license prior to any distribution of royalties. Revision of the royalty distribution formula. The royalty distribution formula apportions revenue among (1) the inventors, (2) the principal investigator’s lab and their department subject to certain caps, and (3) the university. The previous formula was an even three-way split of royalties following the 15% deduction (33% of the 85% of net royalties, or 28.33%). By eliminating the 15% deduction, the new formula increases distribution percentages, especially to inventors and their departments, as follows: 35% to the inventors 35% to the PI/Department/Dean 30% to the Office of the Provost Clarifying applicability of the Patent Policy to undergraduates. The Patent Policy revisions add language to clarify when Brown does not assert any ownership interest in undergraduate intellectual property. In particular, it clarifies intellectual property issues relating to industry-related capstone projects. For questions or more details on the changes, faculty are invited to contact the Brown Technology Innovations office ([email protected]). Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Our Team Brown Biomedical Innovations to Impact (BBII) Brown Technology Innovations Advisory Board For Faculty and Inventors Consulting Agreements Confidentiality Agreements Industry Sponsored Research Reporting an Invention For Investigators from Lifespan Patent and Invention Policy News from Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat