Close Alert Message Alert Carolina! Normal The University is currently operating under normal conditionsLast updated at 6:00pmFriday, May 27th, 2022Skip to Main Content Top Level Navigation Discover Navigate Navigate About the UniversityDisplay Sub Menu for About the University About the University Alumni By the numbers Branding and Identity GuidelinesOpens in new site Carolina NextOpens in new site For the MediaOpens in new site Frequently Asked Questions History and Traditions Leadership Mission & Values Support the University UNC Social Media UNC SystemOpens in new site News and UpdatesDisplay Sub Menu for News and Updates News and Updates Academics Around Campus Arts & Humanities Athletics Events Calendar Global Health & Medicine Innovation & Entrepreneurship University News Research Working at CarolinaOpens in new site Campaign for CarolinaOpens in new site AcademicsDisplay Sub Menu for Academics Academics Academic Calendar and Registrar Academic Enhancements Continuing Education Opportunities Academic Departments Friday Center for Continuing Education Libraries Online and Distance EducationOpens in new site Programs and Curricula Summer School Admissions and Aid SchoolsDisplay Sub Menu for Schools Schools College of Arts & Sciences Adams School of Dentistry Education Eshelman School of Pharmacy Gillings School of Global Public Health Government Graduate School Information & Library Science Law Kenan-Flagler Business School Hussman School of Journalism and Media Medicine Nursing Social Work Come Visit Us Diversity and Inclusion Research Innovation and Economic Development Arts and Culture GlobalOpens in new site Life at CarolinaDisplay Sub Menu for Life at Carolina Life at Carolina About the Town Campus Recreation Carolina Housing Carolina UnionOpens in new site Community and Public Service Health & Wellness AthleticsDisplay Sub Menu for Athletics Athletics GoHeels.comOpens in new site Campus RecreationOpens in new site IntramuralsOpens in new site Sports ClubsOpens in new site UNC HealthOpens in new site Search The University of North Carolina at Chapel HillHide Main Navigation Menu Featured Diamond Heels claim ACC title Tar Heels cap undefeated season with NCAA title News and Updates Academics Around Campus Arts & Humanities Athletics Events Calendar Global Health & Medicine Innovation & Entrepreneurship University News Research Search PeopleOpens in new window PlacesOpens in new window Search UNC.edu Research UNC-Chapel Hill receives $65 million from NIH for antiviral drug development center The new center will develop antivirals that could combat future pandemic-level viruses. By UNC Gillings School of Global Public Health, Friday, May 20th, 2022 Emily Madden works in the Heise Lab. The lab is part of the Rapidly Emerging Antiviral Drug Development Initiative (READDI), focused on developing antivirals ahead of the next pandemic. (Megan May/UNC Research) Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Pinterest Share via Email Print Friendly The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, part of the National Institutes of Health, awarded the UNC Gillings School of Global Public Health a $65 million grant, establishing an Antiviral Drug Discovery Center to develop oral antivirals that can combat pandemic-level viruses like COVID-19. The center builds upon and is tightly affiliated with Carolina’s Rapidly Emerging Antiviral Drug Development Initiative. The READDI-AViDD Center, one of nine established by the NIH, is an integrated public-private partnership with a renowned, interdisciplinary research team of experts from the Gillings School, UNC School of Medicine and UNC Eshelman School of Pharmacy. They will apply cutting-edge technologies to develop oral therapies that target viral families with high potential to cause a pandemic in the future. “Building on generous support and vision provided by the North Carolina legislature, the Governor’s office and UNC, we established a collaborative coalition of scientific leaders to develop antiviral drugs against pandemic virus threats of the 21st century,” stated Ralph Baric, program director and William R. Kenan, Jr. Distinguished Professor in epidemiology, microbiology and immunology. “To achieve these goals, our NIH sponsored READDI-AViDD Center is an international consortium that includes academic institutions, pharmaceutical companies and affiliated entities across five nations who work together to prevent life-threatening human coronavirus, flavivirus, alphavirus and filovirus infections.” “At Carolina, we talk about practical applications of our research to improve society and the public good. Faced with the threat of COVID-19, our world-class scientists did not back down,” said Chancellor Kevin M. Guskiewicz. “Their continued pursuit of solutions saved lives, and this recent award recognizes the profound impact of that work. I’m grateful for this funding and the continued support of the North Carolina General Assembly, which enables us to perform cutting-edge research and prepare for whatever might be next on the horizon.” READDI was initially founded and supported through Carolina’s Creativity Hubs initiative and the Eshelman Institute for Innovation, and recent funding from the North Carolina General Assembly and support from several members of the North Carolina Congressional delegation has been critical in aiding the team’s work. By drawing on expertise and technology from academic and industry partners, including Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Takeda, Chimerix Inc. and Pardes Biosciences, READDI-AC will aid in the discovery and development of broad-spectrum antivirals that reduce the risk of severe illness and death from these highly contagious viruses. “Investment in antiviral drug discovery through open science is the best way to ensure that the world is prepared for the next pandemic,” said Tim Willson, co-director and professor at the UNC Eshelman School of Pharmacy. “READDI-AC will leverage open science to support the development of antiviral drugs that are affordable and available to all.” “The devastating effects of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic illustrates the critical need for new antiviral treatments for both existing and future viral disease threats,” said Mark Heise, professor of genetics at the UNC School of Medicine and co-founder of READDI alongside Baric and Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology Nathaniel Moorman. “The READDI-AC Program is poised to significantly enhance our ability to treat existing threats while preparing for future viral disease outbreaks.” The award is part of NIAD’s Antiviral Program for Pandemics, or APP, an intensive research program designed to speed development of therapeutics for COVID-19. The AViDD centers will conduct research on the early-stage identification and validation of novel viral targets, with an eye to identify small molecules and biotherapeutics that directly block viral targets. As drug candidates are identified and evaluated for properties such as potency and breadth, the most promising will enter late-stage preclinical development. Importantly, the centers can draw on the resources of their industry partners to accelerate research, making use of the companies’ chemical libraries and expertise in moving candidates into the product development pipeline. The READDI-AC’s consortium of international collaborators also includes the University of Toronto, Diamond Light Source LTD, Sichting VU, Duke University, McGill University, Rutgers University, the University of Alberta, the University of Wisconsin-Madison, University College London, Vanderbilt University and Vanderbilt University Medical Center, the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Maryland-Baltimore County, Oregon Health and Science University, Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, the University of Colorado-Denver, and the University of Tennessee Health Science Center. Research reported in this publication was supported by the National Institute of Allergy And Infectious Diseases of the National Institutes of Health under Award Number U19AI171292. The content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the National Institutes of Health. Learn more about the nine AViDD centers established by the NIH Categories Research Keep Reading A message from the chancellor: Living up to our ideals You May Also Like... Diamond Heels claim ACC title It was the team's first appearance in the title game since winning the title in 2019 and marks the eighth conference tournament win in program history. Tar Heels cap undefeated season with NCAA title The top-ranked Tar Heels finished the season 22-0, setting a school record for wins and becoming the first undefeated national champion since 2017. Comeback puts women’s lacrosse in championship game With a 15-14 win over Northwestern, the top-ranked Tar Heels improved to 21-0 on the season and will play for their third NCAA title. Display Previous Slide of Related Articles Carousel Display Next Slide of Related Articles Carousel A commitment to the Carolina family: Jenny Levy’s leadership Jenny Levy is only the fourth person to both play on and coach a national championship women's lacrosse team. Her overall record as the Tar Heels' head mentor has been exemplary, and on Sunday the team will play for its third national title. Filing flora More than 800,000 rare, extinct and native flora have been preserved by the North Carolina Botanical Garden’s Herbarium, where biodiversity is found in every filing cabinet. Pillar of Ground Services leads quietly Whether preparing for Spring Commencement or cleaning up debris in fall, Massey winner Mark Moon keeps Carolina’s campus beautiful and his colleagues safe. Display Previous Slide of Related Articles Carousel Display Next Slide of Related Articles Carousel May 06 – Sep 12 Health Insurance is Mandatory! Campus Health Services320 Emergency Room DriveChapel HillNC27599 | May 31 Carolina Public Humanities – Great Books Reading Group 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Flyleaf Books752 Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd.Chapel HillNC27514 | $40 Jun 03 600 HIGHWAYMEN | A Thousand Ways (Part Three): An Assembly 8:00 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. CURRENT ArtSpace + Studio123 W Franklin StChapel Hill27516 | $15 Display Previous Slide of Events Carousel Display Next Slide of Events Carousel Accessibility Alert Carolina Alumni Connect Carolina Campus Map Contact Us Careers Departments A – Z Ethics and Integrity For the Media Libraries People Directory Privacy Statement UNC Student Stores The Well Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest © 2022 The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share LinkedIn E-mail