Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF EDUCATION COLLEGE OF EDUCATION CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTION Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 EDC&I 351 Teaching as a Profession (5) I&S, DIV Helps students assess the profession of teaching. Explores what becoming a teacher means, assesses the organizational structure of teaching as a career and profession, examines social attitudes about education and the work of teachers, and thinks about teaching as social justice work. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 351 EDC&I 352 Teaching to Change the World (5) I&S, DIV F. Barajas Examines how value structures and political decisions affect systems of education. Considers particular inequalities based on race, class, and gender. Encourages students to see the course as both an academic exercise, and a vantage point for considering their own past and possible future experiences in education. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 352 EDC&I 359 Second-Language Learning in Schools and Communities (5) DIV M. VARGHESE What are the major theories of how languages are learned? How do people, especially children and adolescents, learn a second or third language? What are the major factors (individual, social, racial, cultural, political) affecting this process? Course explores how answers to these assist teachers and community educators. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 359 EDC&I 424 Multiethnic Curriculum and Instruction (3) I&S, DIV Primarily for preservice and in-service teachers who have little or no previous exposure to issues related to ethnicity and schooling. Designed to help teachers better understand the school's role in the ethnic education of students and acquire the insights, understandings, and skills needed to design and implement curricular and instructional strategies that reflect ethnic diversity. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 424 EDC&I 438 Improvement of Teaching: Latin (5) VLPA Offered: jointly with LATIN 475. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 438 EDC&I 450 Educational Equity, Diversity, and Social Justice in Practice (3/5) I&S, DIV Jondou Chen Examines the role of educational practitioners seeking to develop equitable and socially just practices while in dynamic relationships with their community members and colleagues in the context of specific places and cultures of practice. Prerequisite: EDUC 251. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 450 EDC&I 453 Immigration and Schooling (5) I&S, DIV A broad framework for understanding the historical, political, legal, policy, and cultural dimensions of schooling for immigrant students in the United States. A general introduction to the issues experienced by culturally and linguistically diverse students. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 453 EDC&I 458 Content Area ESL Instruction (3) Exposes students and engages them in how to support their English Language Learners in their content areas through sheltered instruction, specifically through the framework, Sheltered Instruction Observation Protocol (SIOP). Focuses specifically on the academic language needs of these students. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 458 EDC&I 459 Workshop in Instructional Improvement: Literacy (1-6, max. 18) Study of special topics in literacy with a focus on practical, classroom topics, and application. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 459 EDC&I 460 Early Literacy Instruction (3) Theory, research, and practice in early literacy acquisition including emergent literacy, phonemic awareness, word identification, comprehension, invented spelling, and writing. Emphasis on classroom instruction strategies for first and second language learners. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 460 EDC&I 461 Materials for Teaching Reading: Children's and Young Adults' Literature (3) Designed to provide acquaintance with materials used in the teaching of reading. Trade books and materials from content areas are examined. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 461 EDC&I 462 Reading Comprehension Instruction in Elementary and Secondary School (3) I&S Research-based practices for explicit teaching of reading comprehension of both fiction and content-area texts including issues of reading strategies, text difficulty, teacher modeling, guided reading, discussion, assessment, and adaptations for struggling students. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 462 EDC&I 464 Educating Native-American Youth (3) Assists students in understanding the North American Indian child from cultural, socioeconomic, and psychological points of view. Provides opportunities for the student to apply knowledge and skills gained in other courses to prepare programs and learning aids relevant to the educational situation of the Indian child. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 464 EDC&I 465 Social Studies Education: Elementary School Programs and Practices (3) Stresses curriculum patterns, instructional procedures, resource materials, and the selection of content in social studies. For elementary and middle school teachers and students in Teacher Education Program. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 465 EDC&I 468 Workshop in Instructional Improvement: Social Studies (1-6, max. 15) Individual or group study projects on the improvement of instruction in social studies. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 468 EDC&I 469 Teaching African American Students and Culture (3) I&S Examination of sociocultural and pedagogical factors that influence African American students' learning styles, opportunities, and outcomes; exploration of ways to reform teaching techniques to better accommodate cultural styles and experiences to improve the educational achievement of African American students. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 469 EDC&I 471 Science Education: Secondary School Programs and Practices (3) Survey of the status and potential role of science in education; trends and their implications for the teaching of both biological and physical sciences in the junior and senior high schools; representative curricula and related teaching procedures; the psychology of concept formation and problem solving; and organization of science programs. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 471 EDC&I 473 Workshop in Instructional Improvement: Science (1-6, max. 20) Individual or group study projects on the improvement of instruction in science. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 473 EDC&I 474 Multi-Ethnic Studies: Methods, Content, and Materials (3) I&S, DIV Designed to help preservice and in-service teachers identify content and materials and devise methods for implementing ethnic studies programs and for incorporating ethnic content into regular K-12 social studies, language arts, and humanities curricula. Special attention is given to teaching about American Indians, Mexican Americans, African Americans, Asian Americans, Puerto Rican Americans, and white ethnic groups. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 474 EDC&I 478 Special Topics in Mathematics for Teachers (2-9, max. 9) NW Study of selected areas of mathematics. Designed for the improvement of teachers of mathematics. Offered: jointly with MATH 497. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 478 EDC&I 479 Workshop in Instructional Improvement: Mathematics (1-6, max. 20) Individual or group study projects for the improvement of instruction in mathematics. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 479 EDC&I 480 Culturally Responsive STEM Teaching (4) I&S, DIV Culturally responsive teaching supports students' and teachers' multiple cultures, the culture of math and science, and the culture of school. Tied to these cultures are ways of thinking that are important for learning both in and outside of school. The challenge for teachers is recognizing mainstream culture while recognizing, respecting, and using students' identities and backgrounds as meaningful sources for optimal learning environments. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 480 EDC&I 485 Workshop in Instructional Improvement: Educational Communication and Technology (2-6, max. 20) Individual or group study projects on the improvement of instruction through use of educational communication and technology. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 485 EDC&I 494 Workshop in Improvement of Curriculum (1-6, max. 20) Stresses the application of procedures for curriculum development, maintenance, and evaluation. Opportunities furnished to develop and perfect strategies for program development with occasions given to utilize the strategies in master plan and materials preparation for simulated or real school situations. Specific focus of workshop is determined by instructor or by arrangement with district. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 494 EDC&I 495 Workshop in Improvement of Teaching: Selected Topics, Issues, or Problems (1-6, max. 20) Individual or group projects to help teachers adapt instruction to selected topics, issues, or problems and to identify the approaches and instructional resources that provide the soundest learning experiences. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 495 EDC&I 496 Workshop in Instructional Improvement (2-6, max. 20) Individual or group study projects on the improvement of instruction with attention to designing instructional plans. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 496 EDC&I 499 Undergraduate Research (*) Students developing studies under this rubric should be advised that a report or a paper setting forth the results of their investigations should be regarded as a basic part of the program. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 499 EDC&I 500 Field Study (1-10, max. 20) Individual study of an educational problem in the field under the direction of a faculty member. Prerequisite: approved plan of study and permission of the instructor must be filed in the Office of Curriculum and Instruction in the College of Education. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 500 EDC&I 503 Foundations of Curriculum and Instruction (4) Explores core concepts and questions of curriculum and instruction: Which knowledge and/or ways of knowing (content, skills, values, dispositions) should be taught? Which knowledge and/or ways of knowing are worthwhile, for whom, and who should decide? How should curriculum be taught and learned? How should teachers relate to students? How should the fact that there are various social and cultural groups shape students' education? View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 503 EDC&I 505 Seminar in Curriculum and Instruction (1-5, max. 20) Seminar on advanced topics in curriculum and instruction. Critical examination of current research and practice. Content varies. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 505 EDC&I 506 Special Topics in Research Methods (1-6, max. 20) Features a special topic in research design and execution such as a particular method of data collection, data analysis, data interpretation, honing a conceptual framework, or reviewing a literature. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 506 EDC&I 507 Teaching and Learning Toward Intersectional Justice (3) Maggie Beneke Builds on asset-based frameworks to understand teaching and learning for children who are multiply-marginalized based on race, language, and disability. Discuss and envision how educators can join transformative movements for inclusive education by supporting and sustaining students' cultural, linguistic, and literate lives. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 507 EDC&I 508 Integrating the Arts in Teaching and Learning (2) Identify basic elements, principles, related concepts, and vocabulary of the creative arts. Islandwood students will be introduced to various media, lesson planning, and ways of integrating the arts into planning academic and multicultural curricula for K-8 classrooms. Serves as a foundation for integrating arts across the curriculum. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 508 EDC&I 509 Advanced Instructional Strategies (3) Provides opportunities for action research among graduate instructors seeking to apply and refine their practice across a wide variety of educational settings. Students are refining their behavior management; assessment of prior knowledge and new learning; and engagement of students in their learning activities. Recommended: Two quarters of IslandWood's Education for Environment and Community program Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 509 EDC&I 510 Collaborative Projects in Educational Leadership (4) J. Haskin Challenges IslandWood graduate students to develop their leadership potential, either in educational organization leadership or in curriculum and teaching leadership. Emphasis in both strands is placed on collaborative skills and working for social and environmental justice. One strand emphasizes educational leadership and integrated curriculum design. The other emphasizes leadership within a nonprofit educational organization. Recommended: Seven months in IslandWood's Education for Environment and Community graduate certificate program. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 510 EDC&I 517 Early Literacy Development and Instruction (3) Roxanne F. Hudson Theory, research, and practice in early literacy acquisition including emergent literacy, phonemic awareness, word identification, spelling, and writing. The focus of this class is on typical and atypical development of literacy and instructional methods appropriate to preschool and early elementary. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 517 EDC&I 518 Critical Theories and Approaches in Educational Research (3) Explore range of ideas and tensions in critical theories in educational research and how they have been applied. Examine the work of theorists such as Bourdieu, Hall and theories such as Critical Race Theory and their applications in current educational studies. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 518 EDC&I 519 Second Language Teacher Education and Identity (3) Focus on understanding the landscape of second language teacher education and identity. Chart the research and practice around the professional lives of their teachers and connect it to the academic and social experiences of bilingual/multilingual children and adults in the United States and globally. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 519 EDC&I 520 Current Models in Early Childhood Education (3) View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 520 EDC&I 523 Conceptions of Race, Equity, and Social Justice in Mathematics Education (4) Explores the most current theories shaping the teaching, learning, and schooling of mathematics education. Issues examined include race, equity, social justice, language, class, gender, culture, and power and their intersections with mathematics education. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 523 EDC&I 524 Seminar in Teacher Education (3, max. 15) Focus on recent research, issues, and proposals for future development in teacher education, certification, and continuing professional growth. Alternate year offering focuses on either preservice or in-service issues. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 524 EDC&I 525 Teacher Learning and School Change (3-4) Synthetic study of how researchers understand what enables teachers and schools to transform themselves. Examines how the fields of teacher learning and school change can inform each other in order to enrich research and development in professional and school learning. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 525 EDC&I 526 Inside Teacher Communities (3-4) Examines different perspectives on professional communities, the roles of communities in teachers' learning, the challenges these communities face, and the possible ramifications of professional communities for students. Participants explore practical tools for studying, engaging in, and building professional learning communities in schools. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 526 EDC&I 527 Pedagogies of Professional Education (3) Investigates the theories of learning, models of teaching, and contextual features that impact the design and enactment of a variety of pedagogies used in various professional education programs. Considers what particular pedagogies demand on the part of the professional educator. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 527 EDC&I 528 Foundations of Language, Literacy, and Culture (4) Explores the nature of literacy by examining language acquisition and its impact on literacy; historical theories and research on reading and writing processes; and how recognition and appreciation of cultural variation has changed literacy instruction and curricula over the past decades. Draws on seminal historical and current research. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 528 EDC&I 529 Reading and Writing Connections: Theories and Practices for Instruction (3) Explores the reciprocity of the reading and writing relationship. considers the connections to language development for young children and English language Learners (ELLs), as well as how reading and writing develop for older students. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 529 EDC&I 530 Approaches to Literacy Instruction (4) Dixie Massey Designed to aid experienced teachers who possess background in the teaching of literacy, and presents a variety of approaches and actual analysis of approaches. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 530 EDC&I 532 Seminar in Literacy Research (4, max. 12) Focuses on understanding scholarly research including various research methodologies (e.g. descriptive, correlational, experimental, quasi-experimental, qualitative) and the research questions they are designed to address. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 532 EDC&I 534 Reading Comprehension Instruction K-12 (4) Dixie Massey Focuses on research-based comprehension strategy instruction and text-based discussion of different types in K-12 classrooms. Examines various comprehension models, strategies for instruction, and assessments of comprehension. Prerequisite: one 400- or 500-level education curriculum and instruction course in reading or language arts or one graduate course in literature for children or young adults. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 534 EDC&I 536 Writing Instruction: Research, Theory, and Practice (4) H. HEBARD Provides a foundation in writing instruction theory, research, and practice that is relevant for teachers, specialists, curriculum developers, and researchers in literacy. Offered: WSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 536 EDC&I 537 Classroom Discourse (4) H. HEBARD Introduction to theoretical and empirical works on the study of classroom discourse. Exploration of the ways in which classroom discourse can support or constrain opportunities to learn. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 537 EDC&I 538 Discourse in the Mathematics Classroom (4) Examines ways of looking at discourse in mathematics classrooms as it relates to teaching practice and student learning. Includes reading both seminal and cutting-edge works in the study of discourse in the mathematics classroom, looking at multiple school contexts and across grade levels. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 538 EDC&I 539 Students' Mathematical Thinking, Curriculum, and Pedagogy (4) Examines ways of understanding the development of students' mathematical thinking. Intensive study of classroom videos, mathematical curricula, and fieldwork enable students to study the relationship among students' mathematical thinking, curriculum, and pedagogy. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 539 EDC&I 540 Immigrant Schooling (3) Educational needs of bilingual students: research findings, special programs, materials, and methodologies that bilingual-bicultural education can provide to meet those needs. Cultural combinations of bilingual populations in American culture; historical, social, and linguistic factors affecting their K-12 education. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 540 EDC&I 542 Approaches to Assessing Second Language Students in K-12 Schools (3) Examines the multiple ways of assessing linguistically diverse students in K-12 schools, including standardized and alternative assessments of these students. Prerequisite: a course in ESL methods. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 542 EDC&I 544 Immigration and Education: Immigrant Student Perspectives (3) Examines the multitude of factors that shape the immigrant student experience in U.S. schools. Takes an interdisciplinary perspective drawing on research from sociology, anthropology, and education, to understand teaching and learning from the perspective of immigrant students. Prerequisite: EDC&I 540 or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 544 EDC&I 545 Multilingual Socialization and Development (3) Explores the research base examining second language acquisition, in and out of school contexts. Focuses on the home language practices of linguistically diverse students with the purpose of understanding how these processes influence school learning. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 545 EDC&I 547 Sociolinguistics (3) The study of language in its social context and the study of social life through language. Explores issues in the field of sociolinguistics and sharpens tools to explore educational issues related to linguistic and cultural diversity. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 547 EDC&I 548 Methods in Teaching English as a Second Language (4) Prepares teachers to teach English as a second language to students who are acquiring English in K-12 settings. Emphasizes the scaffolding of the development of the four language domains; listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Prerequisite: EDC&I 540 and EDC&I 545 or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 548 EDC&I 549 Practicum in Teaching English Learners in Context (3) Provides experiences in the field observing and working with an experienced ELL-endorsed teacher. Consists of observation; planning, teaching, and reflecting on at least two weeks worth of ELL-focused instruction lessons; and continued development of the methodological competencies needed to teach ELL students through seminar sessions at the practicum site. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 549 EDC&I 551 Introduction to Instructional Design (3) An experimental course in analyzing, designing, developing, and formatively evaluating instructional products using the Instructional Systems Design (ISD) Mode. Also, discussion of how to successfully implement an instructional product/program within an organization using change management principles. Business and industry training focus. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 551 EDC&I 552 Coaching and Mentoring Adult Learners (3) Sylvia Bagley Provides a foundation in coaching, mentoring, and other forms of peer-driven professional development in educational settings, grounded within research on adult professional learning and socio-cultural theories. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 552 EDC&I 553 Collecting, Interpreting and Using Data for School Improvement (3) Sylvia Bagley Examines current trends in data use for school improvement. Explores the role of data in supporting and constraining equity in schools; current research on how teachers interact with data; essentials of data literacy; opportunities for teacher learning through data use; and organizational structures found to support or constrain data use in schools. Recommended: Designed for current and emerging teacher leaders who have previous classroom teaching experience or other instructionally-related experience in schools or school districts. Also appropriate for graduate students who are studying teacher learning. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 553 EDC&I 554 Bilingual Teaching Methods and Assessment (3) Examines methods and materials in primary language instruction and assessment. Candidates will learn methods for supporting language and content development in students home language. The course uses a target language as a medium of instruction and support in biliteracy development and language instruction in content areas. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 554 EDC&I 556 Elementary School Curriculum (4) Study of elementary school curriculum, its design, rationale, and delivery. Current trends and issues affecting elementary school curriculum analyzed. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 556 EDC&I 558 Secondary School Curriculum (4) Systematic analysis of current curriculum practices, with particular emphasis on the social and historical forces affecting secondary-school curriculum. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 558 EDC&I 559 Principles and Procedures of Curriculum Development (3) Intensive study of basic principles and procedures utilized in development of curricula. Participants have opportunities to apply such procedures in class activities. Attention given to curriculum foundations. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 559 EDC&I 560 Social Studies Education Programs and Practices (3) Stresses powerful instructional strategies, materials, and a selection of content in social studies education. For experienced teachers and non-social studies students in the Teacher Education Program. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 560 EDC&I 561 Instruction for Under-Achieving Readers (2-10, max. 20) Covers instructional techniques addressing the comprehension, decoding, vocabulary, and fluency needs for under-achieving readers as well as strategies for assessing students' reading abilities and planning for instruction. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 561 EDC&I 562 Literacy in the Content Areas (4) H. HEBARD Study of reading, writing, listening, and speaking in content area instruction. Offered: WS. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 562 EDC&I 563 Topics in Adolescent Literacies (4, max. 8) H. HEBARD Provides an introduction to several important topics in adolescent literacies. Topics covered may change from year to year. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 563 EDC&I 565 Seminar in Social Studies Education: Elementary Emphasis (3) Intensive study of the social studies curriculum, with particular emphasis on current literature and research. Prerequisite: EDC&I 465 or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 565 EDC&I 566 Seminar in Social Studies Education: Secondary Emphasis (3) Intensive study of the social studies curriculum, with particular emphasis on current literature and research. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 566 EDC&I 567 Current Issues in Social Studies Education (1-3, max. 20) Discussion of problems and issues of current interest and importance in social studies education. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 567 EDC&I 568 Youth Multiliteracies: Multimodality, Culture, and Identity (4) H. HEBARD Focuses on the role of multimodal literacies in the lives of diverse youth. Considers the implications of a rapidly changing communication landscape for teaching and learning literacies in schools. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 568 EDC&I 569 Educating Ethnic Minority Youths (4) Intensive analysis and review of the research and curricular programs related to the social, psychological, and political factors that influence the school experiences of ethnic minority youths. Special attention given to instructional and curricular programs for African American, American Indian, Mexican American, Puerto Rican American, and Asian American students. Prerequisite: graduate standing or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 569 EDC&I 571 Ambitious Learning by Design in Science Classrooms (4) Explores the frontiers of research in science learning environments that are both rigorous and equitable. Allows individuals to wrestle with the current problems of teaching and learning, including how to design opportunities for all students to participate in the discourses and practice of science. Prerequisite: EDC&I 471 or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 571 EDC&I 572 Action Research in Education (3) Sylvia Bagley Introduces students to action research, a form of self-reflective, systematic inquiry by practitioners. Topics include identifying problems to investigate, selecting appropriate research methods, collecting and analyzing data, and drawing conclusions from research. Recommended: teaching experience. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 572 EDC&I 573 School Reform and Multicultural Education (3) Similarities and differences among the visions, goals, and strategies of proposals for school reform and multicultural education are analyzed; implications for practice in curriculum and instruction are deduced from these analyses. Prerequisite: one course in multicultural education or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 573 EDC&I 574 Race, Gender, and Knowledge Construction: Curriculum Considerations (3) Using historical and contemporary perspectives, considers ways in which knowledge related to race and gender has been and is constructed and the implications of ways in which knowledge is constructed for curriculum reform and teaching. Prerequisite: one course in ethnic studies, multicultural education, or women studies or permission or instructor. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 574 EDC&I 575 Seminar in Mathematics Education: Elementary Emphasis (3) Investigation of curriculum and instruction in mathematics at the elementary-school level; review of research and preparation of proposals. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 575 EDC&I 576 Seminar in Mathematics Education: Secondary Emphasis (3) Investigation of curriculum and instruction in mathematics at the secondary-school level; review of research and preparation of proposals. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 576 EDC&I 577 Current Issues in Mathematics Education (1, max. 20) Discussion of problems and issues of current interest and importance in mathematics education. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 577 EDC&I 578 Multicultural Education Across Nations: Policy and Curriculum Issues (3) J. BANKS Acquaints students with concepts, theories, research, and practices in multicultural education, diversity, and citizenship education in nations around the world. Emphasis on how nations educate students for citizenship and balance unity and diversity. Completion of a major paper that examines diversity and citizenship within a nation outside of the United States. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 578 EDC&I 579 Culturally Sustaining Pedagogies: Teaching and Learning for Justice in a Changing World (3) Django Paris Culturally sustaining pedagogy (CSP) offers a vision of school that seeks to perpetuate and foster linguistic, literate, and cultural pluralism as part of schooling for positive social transformation and revitalization. Reclaiming and reimagining schooling as a site to sustain Indigenous, Black, Latinx, Asian and Pacific Islander communities, including the ways these identities/memberships intersect multiple other identities. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 579 EDC&I 581 Cognitive Systems Design (3) Covers the design of applied technology-based learning systems, informed by current views of learning, technology, and cognition. Emphasizes synthesizing students' knowledge of technology, learning and research in collaborative settings. Prerequisite: EDPSY 501 or permission of Instructor. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 581 EDC&I 582 Design Experimentation and Implementation in Context (3) Introduces theoretical, methodological, and practical issues involved with studying the designed use of learning technologies in real world settings. Focuses on engaging in empirical study of the designed system through partnerships involving education researchers, educators, and technologists. Prerequisite: EDPSY 501 and a quarter of qualitative methods, or permission of Instructor. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 582 EDC&I 585 Technology and the Culture of Education (3) Social impact of technology on education in the United States and elsewhere: social, political, and cultural factors affecting educational communication and technology; roles and relationships among instructors and learners; appropriate technology in developing countries; technology's long-term influence on thought and values. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 585 EDC&I 587 Design and Application of Interactive and Immersive Instructional Systems (3) Theoretical and empirical questions involved in design of interactive instructional systems using such technologies as virtual reality and CAI. Specific problems inherent in design of complex learning environments: immersion, control, structure, sequence of experiences, navigation, learner guidance. Educational uses of systems. Prerequisite: either EDC&I 583 or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 587 EDC&I 593 Seminar in Curriculum: Theory and Practice (3) Investigation of curriculum theory and practice. Consideration is given to theoretical writings that address the relationships between various curricular variables. Theoretical positions are related to curricular practices and innovations. Prerequisite: EDC&I 559. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 593 EDC&I 595 Seminar in Analysis of Teaching (3) Investigation of the ways in which classroom teaching has been analyzed from a variety of disciplinary perspectives. Focus on methods, findings, and implications of research on teaching. Prerequisite: teaching experience. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 595 EDC&I 596 Seminar in Strategies of Instruction (3) Various instructional models applicable to all levels of schooling. Theoretical and philosophical bases for these instructional models are considered. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 596 EDC&I 599 Independent Studies in Education (*) Independent studies or readings of specialized aspects of education. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 599 EDC&I 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 600 EDC&I 601 Internship ([1-10]-, max. 20) Prerequisite: permission based on approval of proposal submitted during quarter preceding the internship. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDC&I 601 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022