Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Exceptional Student Education (BS) – Learning and Language Track Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Teacher Education, Schl of In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Exceptional Student Education B.S. Learning & Language Track is specifically focused on students who wish to enhance their knowledge of exceptional students with an emphasis on language and communication. The Learning & Language Track prepares graduates for employment in a broad spectrum of professional opportunities including non-profits serving persons with disabilities and non-traditional educational agencies serving students with disabilities. Graduates will earn a Certificate in Language Development and Disorders as a part of the Exceptional Student Education Learning & Language track. Students seeking certification in exceptional student education must apply through their respective states. Exceptional Student Education – Learning & Language (BS) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. Click here to learn more about the online program. Online Exceptional Student Education – Learning & Language, BS View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Autism Tutor Early Childhood Special Education Teacher Early Childhood Special Educator Pre-K Special Education Teacher Pre-Kindergarten Special Education Teacher Special Education Preschool Teacher Special Education Teacher for Adults with Disabilities Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Exceptional Student Education (BS) - Learning and Language Track University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Exceptional Student Education B.S. Learning & Language Track is specifically focused on students who wish to enhance their knowledge of exceptional students with an emphasis on language and communication. The Learning & Language Track prepares graduates for employment in a broad spectrum of professional opportunities including non-profits serving persons with disabilities and non-traditional educational agencies serving students with disabilities. Graduates will earn a Certificate in Language Development and Disorders as a part of the Exceptional Student Education Learning & Language track. Students seeking certification in exceptional student education must apply through their respective states. Exceptional Student Education – Learning & Language (BS) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. Click here to learn more about the online program. Online Exceptional Student Education – Learning & Language, BS Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 0 Total Credits A grade of "C" (2.0) or better is required. Education Core Requirements 37 - 39 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: EDF4603 - Analysis and Application of Ethical, Legal, and Safety Issues in Schools (3) TSL4080 - Theory and Practice of Teaching ESOL Students in Schools (3) EEX3221 - Assessment of Exceptional Students (3) EEX3241 - Methods for Academic Skills for Exceptional Students (3) EEX3243 - Techniques for Exceptional Adolescents-Adults (3) EEX3830 - Practicum in Exceptional Student Education (3) EEX4070 - Teaching Exceptional Students (3) EEX4204 - Instructional Strategies for Effective Inclusive Settings (1 - 3) EEX4601 - Introduction to Behavior Management (3) EEX4763 - Technology for Classroom Teachers of Students with Special Needs (3) RED4043 - Content Reading in Kindergarten through Grade 12 (3) EEX4250 - Reading Instruction in Exceptional Education (3) Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: EEX 4054 Learning & Language Specialization Courses 20 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: Students are required to declare and complete a Certificate in Language Development and Disorders which will increase marketability in several professional areas. Students will select additional upper level electives (9 hours). Complete the following: LIN3713 - Language Science (3) LIN3716 - Language Development (3) LIN3716L - Language Development Lab (2) SPA4400 - Language Disorders Across the Life Span (3) Grand Total Credits: 57 - 59 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida