COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Mentoring and Coaching, Graduate Certificate Graduate CertificateMentoring and Coaching All Programs College of Applied Studies Intervention Services and Leadership in Education Wichita State’s graduate certificate in mentoring and coaching provides students with the skills and knowledge needed to lead organizations, provide professional mentoring, design effective mentoring and coaching programs, foster organizational learning and improve individual performance. Learn how Mentoring and Coaching is the right fit for you. Contact Coordinator Curriculum This 12-credit-hour certificate consists of two required courses and additional approved electives chosen by the student. The required courses and potential areas of elective study are: Mentoring and Coaching: Transformational Relationships (required) Mentoring and Coaching: Metacognitive Practice (required) Change, Creativity and Innovation Learning Theory and Curriculum Design Instructional Theory Instructional Leadership: Professionalism and Collaboration Depending on their chosen courses, students who earn the certificate and then wish to pursue WSU's Master of Education (M.Ed.) in learning and instructional design may be able to apply some certificate courses toward their master's degree. View the curriculum Admission to the program There are two paths to admission to the program: For those already enrolled in graduate school, simply complete the Declaration of Intent to Pursue a Certificate Form. Prospective students should apply using the Graduate School application for admission. Graduate School Application 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©