Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Network Accessibility Network right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow About us Accessibility Commitment and Policy EIT Accessibility Plan FAQ's Accessibility 101 right arrow down arrow Accessibility Definitions Documents right arrow down arrow Microsoft Excel Accessibility right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint right arrow down arrow Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Websites right arrow down arrow Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Video & Media right arrow down arrow Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Ordering Professional Captions YouTube Studio Captioning Checklist Purchasing right arrow down arrow Procurement Policy Accessibility Review VPAT Software and Applications Checklist Canvas right arrow down arrow Ally for Canvas Course Syllabus Create an Accessible Canvas Course Checklist Training right arrow down arrow Digital Inclusion Day right arrow down arrow Call for Proposals Schedule of Events Registration Accessibility Compliance Training right arrow down arrow Request Enrollment - Accessibility Compliance Training Home » About UC » Electronic Accessibility » Web » Checklists Set Navigation title in component Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Accessibility Checklist Checklist for webpages File Setup Does the web address not contain spaces and/or special characters? Is the web address short, descriptive and contain lowercase letters? Are heading styles organized in a hierarchal and logical fashion, with consecutive headings (i.e., no missing heading levels)? Text Is the list style being used as opposed to manually typed characters (e.g. Hyphens, numbers, or graphics)? Is content clear and concise? Do all URLs contain descriptive hyperlinks (i.e., avoid generic phrases like "Click here" and, instead, use phrases that let users know about the content of the linked page prior to selecting it)? Is the color contrast ratio between foreground text and background color sufficient? Images Do all images, grouped images, and non-text elements that convey information have meaningful alternative-text descriptions? Do complex images (i.e., charts and graphs) have descriptive text near the image (perhaps as a caption or long description)? Is the document free of scanned text-heavy images (i.e., avoid text content contained in images that disappear when images are not available)? If color is used to emphasize important text, is there is an alternate, compliant method used as well? Have you provided alternatives for or avoided use of sensory information (e.g., shape, size, color, visual location, orientation, sound, etc.)? Tables Do all data tables have proper titles, captions, column headers and/or row headers? For tables containing data, is there an alternative long description used to explain the meaning of the table if it is not otherwise evident from context? Multimedia If a video–Does the video or animation contain synchronized captioning? If a sound file–Does the sound file have a matching transcript file? If an animation–Does the animation have a text equivalent? Accessibility Check Has the site been checked for accessibility by the Accessibility Network? Has a separate accessible version of documents or media been provided when there is no other way to make the content accessible? Did you use the MS Office Accessibility Checker on any electronic documents, has that been run and does it pass? Are links provided to any special readers or plug-ins that are required to interpret page content? Checklist for Software and Applications Keyboard Does the application provide clear and precise instructions for use of all keyboard functions as part of the user documentation? Does the software provide keyboard equivalents for all mouse actions, including buttons, scroll windows, text entry fields, and pop-up windows? Does the software have a logical tabbing order among fields, text boxes, and focal points? Can you use the arrow keys to navigate through a list followed by pressing the ENTER key or space bar to select the desired item? Are keyboard shortcut keys provided for all pull-down menus? Interactive Elements If timed responses are present, does the software allow the user to modify the length of required timed responses? Does the software application pick up the screen size settings that the user has defined for accessibility? Does every window, object, and control have a clearly named label positioned outside the form field? Does the software application use standard controls rather than owner-drawn or custom controls? Screen Elements Is the use of icons consistent throughout the application? Are text equivalents provided for all icons in the menu, tool, and format bars? Does the software ensure that color-coding is never used as the only means of conveying information or indicating an action? Does the application support user-defined color settings system-wide? Is all visible and nonvisible text clear and concise? Multimedia If there are audio alerts, are visual cues also provided? Can the user disable or adjust sound volume? If information is provided in an audio format, is it also capable of being displayed by the user in a visual format? Is the software application free of patterned backgrounds used behind text or important graphics? Can a user override default fonts for printing and text displays? Can a user adjust or disable flashing, rotating, or moving displays? Technical Support Are all manuals and documentation provided in an accessible electronic format including text descriptions of any charts, graphs, pictures, or graphics of any nature? Is special training provided for users with disabilities that will enable them to become familiar with the software and learn how to use it in conjunction with assistive technology provided as an accommodation? Accessibility Check Does the software support existing accessibility features built into the operating system (e.g., sticky keys, slow keys, repeat keys, Voice Over)? Have you tested the application with a sampling of common assistive technologies (including, at a minimum, a screen reader, and, if possible, alternate input devices, screen enlargement software, and voice recognition software and devices)? Describe the accessibility successes and problems you encountered during these testing exercises, as well as your plans for addressing any problems. Have you evaluated similar software alternatives that might have better accessibility features? University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top