Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites About Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Related Links: Student Research Forum Summer Research Training Program Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift About University of Kansas Medical Center Privacy Statement Online Privacy The University of Kansas Medical Center ("KUMC") respects the privacy of visitors to our website. Activity data is collected throughout the website. This data includes the visitor's subdomain, browser version, operating system, and which pages are accessed. Such information is gathered for statistical purposes but may be reviewed in the course of site maintenance, system troubleshooting, or security management. Visitors to the site are not personally identified in connection with the collection or use of the above statistics. Information Collected and Stored Automatically If you visit our site to read or download information, we may collect and store the following information about your visit: The name of the Internet domain (for example, "xcompany.com" if you use a private Internet access account, or "yourschool.edu" if you are connecting from a university's domain) and the IP address (a number automatically assigned to your computer when you are using the Internet) from which you access our site; The type of browser and operating system used to access our site; The date and time you access our site; The Internet address of the website from which you linked directly to our site; and The pages you visit and the information you request. This information is primarily collected for statistical analysis and technical improvements to the site. This computer system uses software programs to create summary statistics, which may be used for such purposes as assessing what information is of most and least interest, determining technical design specifications, and identifying system performance or problem areas. When required by law or security related necessity, we may take additional steps to identify you based on collected information. Web Use by Children This website is not directed to anyone under the age of 13. The website does not knowingly collect or solicit information from anyone under the age of 13. In the event that we learn that we have gathered information from anyone under the age of 13 without consent of a parent or guardian, we will delete the information as soon as possible. Cookies "Cookies" are small bits of text which are either used for the duration of a session ("session cookies"), or saved on a user's hard drive in order to identify that user, or information about that user, the next time the user logs on to a website ("persistent cookies"). Certain KU Medical Center sites solicit personal information when necessary to provide specific services, such as fulfilling library requests. Collection of confidential information, via such sites, such as credit card numbers and patient information, use SSL (secure socket layers) to safeguard your personal data against interception during transmission. All of the data collected via these websites is confidential and accessible only to employees of the University. At no time will the University sell or distribute personal information to a third party. We reserve the right to update or change our Privacy Statement at any time and encourage you to check this Privacy Statement periodically. Your continued use of KU Medical Center websites after we post any modifications to the Privacy Statement will constitute your acknowledgment of the modifications and your consent to abide and be bound by the modified Privacy Statement. Questions regarding this privacy statement or the practices of this site may be submitted to cgriffith@kumc.edu. This Statement was last updated on May 25, 2018. Notice of Privacy Practices for Patients at KU Medical Center Our Notice of Privacy Practices (260KB PDF file) details the way in which medical information about you may be used and disclosed and how you can get access to this information. Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.