Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) About Apply for Housing Apply for Housing SMU Housing Portal Rate and Fees Living On Campus Living On Campus Residential Commons Upper-Division Housing Apartments Policies Get Involved Get Involved Dallas Community Departments Faculty Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Students Make A Request ☰ Welcome home RLSH About Move-In Mustang Move-In We are very excited to welcome you to the Hilltop! We are currently working to provide a seamless Move-In experience. As we have additional details about the process they will be posted below. Fall Arrivals New students New First Year Move-In Days: Wednesday, August 17 & Thursday, August 18 Transfer student Move-In Day: Thursday, August 18 Welcome to the Hilltop! Fall Move-In Days are an exciting series of days that occur before Stampede, giving you time to settle into your new home. New student Move-In Days are announced in late-May of each year. You will receive an email notification when these dates are announced and Move-In timeslots become active in the SMU Housing Portal. Students must register for a Move-In timeslot prior to July 31. Please do not book travel until you have a timeslot to ensure your travel plans align with your timeslot. Returning students Returning student Move-In Days: Friday, August 19 & Saturday, August 20 Welcome back! We are happy to have you join us for another year on the Hilltop. Residence halls will open for returning students after New Student Move-In Days ends but before classes begin. Returning students should inform RLSH of their arrival date on the SMU Housing Portal starting in late-May. Please select a timeslot before making travel plans. Early arrivals Early arrival Move-In Days: Varies by program Early arrival programs allow students to attend structured program-specific events that focus on preparation for the academic school year. Residents participating in certain University-sponsored programs may be eligible for early arrival. Students who are eligible for early arrival will be notified and can select an appropriate timeslot in the SMU Housing Portal. Below are additional examples of programs that allow for early arrivals. International Orientation Rotunda Scholars Stampede Guides Important Dates News & Announcements Residential Commons Move-In instructions Step one: Upload student ID photo This first step will actually be done before you arrive on-campus. Following Parking & ID Services parameters, submit and have a photo approved by July 1 on the My Card Portal. You must complete this step or we will be unable to provide you a student ID card at Move-In. All of our residence halls are card-access only to enter the building, and some of our student rooms also rely on card-access, so it's an important item to have on campus. Step two: Select a Move-In Day timeslot Again, this step occurs prior to coming to campus. On the SMU Housing Portal, select a Move-In timeslot that is the most convenient for you. No timeslot is better than the other, since we stagger appointments throughout the day, ensuring a steady flow of Move-In participants. If you need to change your move-in time, simply do so on the housing portal. An email will be sent to your SMU account letting you know when timeslots go live, starting in late-May. Please secure a timeslot by July 31. Only after you have confirmed your Move-In timeslot should you book travel. There are multiple Move-In Days, and you want to ensure that your travel plans coincide with your move-in time. Step three: Drive to residence hall parking area Your Move-In Day has arrived, and it is time to come to campus! On your Move-In Day, at your scheduled time, you will need be on-campus, ready to unload and unpack your belongings. Please do not arrive early, nor late, as this will disrupt our schedule and make the move-in experience more laborious. To make the process of unloading easier, we have identified the closest parking areas to each building, listed below. Please park in the appropriate lot for your residence hall. As parking is limited, we rely on students moving in at their scheduled time, so that there will be parking spaces available for everyone. Parking Guide Armstrong, Crum, Kathy Crow, Loyd, and Ware Commons (Southeast Area): Mustang Parking Center, 6001 Bush Avenue Boaz, Cockrell-McIntosh, McElvaney, and Morrison-McGinnis Commons (Central Area): Binkley Parking Center, 3105 Binkley Ave Mary Hay Peyton Shuttles, and Virginia-Snider Commons (North Area): Mary Hay Commons, 6201 Bishop Blvd; park along the yellow curb side in the cul-de-sac of Bishop Blvd Step four: Check-in at Move-In tent Now that you have found a place to park, it is time to check-in with RLSH staff to let us know that you are here! Check-in at the Move-In tent for your area, locations below. Don't worry, you can't miss it; it's filled with staff and student leaders ready to assist you with checking-in, answering questions, and getting you settled into your new home. At the tent, you will receive a set of keys for your room and your student ID card. This is why it is so important that you have submitted a photo and received approval from Parking & ID Services by July 1: so we can have your card ready for you upon check-in. Student IDs are important because all residence halls are card-access only to enter the building. Move-In tent locations: Armstrong, Crum, Kathy Crow, Loyd, and Ware Commons (Southeast Area): Outside of Loyd Commons, 5901 Bush Ave Boaz, Cockrell-McIntosh, McElvaney, and Morrison-McGinnis Commons (Central Area): Outside of Mac's Place, 6000 Bishop Blvd Mary Hay Peyton Shuttles, and Virginia-Snider Commons (North Area): Outside of Virginia-Snider Commons, 3315 Peyton Parkway Step five: Borrow a moving bin Borrow a moving bin or two at the Move-In tent. To cut down on the number of trips you have to make to and from your car, we provide large rolling moving bins. Grab a bin, pile in your belongings, and roll it to your room. The bins are large, so please be kind and patient when navigating through halls and around others. Remember, we are all moving in together! Once you have removed your belongings from the bin and deposited them in your room, please return the bin to the Move-In tent so that other students and families can use it. Step six: Make your room home Now that all of your belongings are in your new room, it's time to organize. Feel free to take time with your guests, families, and roommate(s) to make your room yours. Set-up your desk, hang your clothes, put away miscellaneous items, and make your bed. Bed loft requests should be submitted prior to July 31. Don't try to loft the bed yourself! Eventually, it will be time to say good-by to your guests and families and to begin experiencing campus. Socialize with your roommate and floormates, explore your residence hall, and attend events that your community and SMU hosts to get you acquainted with the Hilltop. Upper-division Housing Move-In instructions Step one: Upload student ID photo This first step will actually be done before you arrive on-campus. Following Parking & ID Services parameters, submit and have a photo approved by July 1 on the My Card Portal. You must complete this step or we will be unable to provide you a student ID card at Move-In. All of our residence halls are card-access only to enter the building, and some of our student rooms also rely on card-access, so it's an important item to have on campus. Step two: Select a Move-In Day timeslot Again, this step occurs prior to coming to campus. On the SMU Housing Portal, select a Move-In timeslot that is the most convenient for you. No timeslot is better than the other, since we stagger appointments throughout the day, ensuring a steady flow of Move-In participants. If you need to change your move-in time, simply do so on the housing portal. An email will be sent to your SMU account letting you know when timeslots go live, starting in late-May. Please secure a timeslot by July 31. Only after you have confirmed your Move-In timeslot should you book travel. There are multiple Move-In Days, and you want to ensure that your travel plans coincide with your move-in time. Step three: Check-in at Move-In tent Your Move-In Day has arrived, and it is time to come to campus! On your Move-In Day, at your scheduled time, you will need be on-campus, ready to unload and unpack your belongings. Please do not arrive early, nor late, as this will disrupt our schedule and make the move-in experience more laborious. You should immediately check-in at the UDH Move-In tent to let RLSH staff know you have arrived. Don't worry, that you haven't parked yet; that will be the next step, so you can snag a spot close to your residence hall. Once at the tent, you will receive a set of keys to your room and your student ID card. This is why it is important that you have submitted a photo and received approval from Parking & ID Services by July 1: so we can have your card ready upon check-in. Student IDs are important because all residence halls are card-access only to enter the building. UDH Move-In tent location All UDH houses: V parking lot, Dyer Court Step four: Drive to residence hall parking area Now that you are checked-in and have your keys, it is time to drive to your residence hall and park. To make the process of unloading easier, we have identified the closest parking areas to each building, listed below. Please park in the appropriate lot for your residence hall. As parking is limited, we rely on students moving in at their scheduled time, so there will be parking spaces available for everyone throughout the day. Parking Guide Daniel House: Airline Parking Center, 6506 Airline Court Moore, Smith, and Perkins House: Hillcrest Parking Center, 5906 Hillcrest Ave, or the parking spaces near each building 3050 SMU Blvd & Service House (SMUSH): Moody Parking Center, 3063 SMU Boulevard, or the parking spaces near each building Step five: Move your belongings into your new home After parking your car, move your belongings into your new room. Feel free to take time with your guests, families, and roommate(s) to make your room yours. Set-up your desk, hang your clothes, put away miscellaneous items, and make your bed. Bed loft requests should be submitted prior to July 31. Don't try to loft the bed yourself! Please note that beds in Daniel and Martin House cannot be lofted. Eventually, it will be time to say good-by to your guests and families and to begin experiencing campus. Socialize with your roommate and floormates, explore your residence hall, and attend events that your community and SMU hosts to get you acquainted with the Hilltop. Useful Move-In links Overflow housing SMU is committed to housing all incoming first-year, continuing second-year, and first- and second-year transfer students under the age of 20, on campus! Learn about Overflow Stampede A four-day, student-only orientation event designed to welcome and prepare the newest Mustangs for the Hilltop! Start the Stampede Dining Housing and meal plans go together like milk and cookies, which our Umphry Lee Dining Hall is famous for! Don't loose out on daily fresh-baked cookies; find the meal plan that's right for you. Purchase a meal plan Parking Students may order their parking permit online by logging into the SMU Parking Portal. Payment is made after the permit is ordered through my.smu.edu, and not on the parking website. Get a parking permit Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share