Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Graduate School Menu About Graduate School Calendar Staff Directory J. Larry Lyon Beth Allison Barr Steve G. Driese Christopher M. Rios Sheila Dooley Sandra B. Harman Anna E. Henderson Tosha A. Hendrickson Eric Hooley Alanna D. Martinez Dana Matthews Alana A. Schaeper Laura Sepanski 2020 Annual Report Admissions COVID-19 Admissions Updates How To Apply Apply Now International: English Proficiency International: Required Documents FAQs Admissions FAQs Admitted Students Additional Information for Admitted International Students Graduate Student Housing Community Moving to Waco Admitted Student FAQs New Graduate Student Orientation 2022 Submitting Test Scores Degrees & Programs Graduate Catalog Baylor Colleges and Schools Benefits & Financial Support Health Insurance Benefits Childbirth & Adoption Short-Term Leave Baylor Funding Opportunities Student Resources Graduate School Deadlines Campus Resources Professional Development All Programs and Workshops On-Campus Research Doctoral Programs On-Campus Master's Programs Online Professional Programs Awards and Funding Opportunities Summer Dissertation Fellowship Doctoral Administrative Fellows Baptist Scholars International Roundtable (BSIR) Baptist College and University Scholars Outstanding Dissertation Award Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Award Outstanding Graduate Research Award BEAR Grants Travel Awards McNair Doctoral Fellowship Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship External Funding Resources Dr. Steven G. Driese Outstanding Grant Proposal Award Completing Your Degree Dissertation & Thesis Resources Requirements for Graduation Completing Your Degree FAQs Faculty & Staff Resources General Resources English for Academic Purposes Program GPS Faculty Development Workshops Graduate Council Graduate Curriculum Committee Graduate Faculty Rights and Membership Proposing a New Graduate Degree Search Grad Faculty Graduate Student Payroll Graduate Program Directors GPD Listing Program Director Statement Resources for Directors Recruitment and Admissions Recruiting Funds Slate Log In Baylor>Graduate School>Admissions>How to Apply How to Apply 1. Explore our Graduate Programs and  Graduate Catalog. The Graduate School is the central, administrative department supporting the majority of graduate programs across the university. Baylor Law School and Truett Seminary have separate admissions offices. Please visit their respective websites for information on applying. 2. Mark your deadlines! Because deadlines are subject to change, it is up to you as the applicant to be sure all materials are submitted by the deadline stated by the department. Some departments have very strict deadlines, while others admit on a rolling basis. Not all programs allow students to enter at all three of the general deadlines. Check with your specific program to confirm which terms they accept applications and their final application deadline. Your department of interest may also require additional application materials. Allow for time needed to take any required tests and for results to be processed (see step 4). International applicants have extra requirements and should allow adequate time for testing and obtaining official records. CLICK HERE for a definition of "international applicant." The Graduate School's general deadlines are below. Individual programs may have different deadlines. Spring semester (January) entry - December 1  Summer session (June) entry - May 1  Fall semester (August) entry - February 15 April 15th Deadline for Fall Offers: As a member of the Council of Graduate Schools (CGS). Baylor abides by the CGS "Resolution Regarding Graduate Scholars, Fellows, Trainees and Assistants," The general spirit of the Resolution is that students should have an opportunity to consider more than one offer and should have until April 15th to do so, and that after April 15th, institutions and students should be able to view an accepted offer of admission as binding. For more details, click HERE. 3. Submit an application. Check where to apply for your program. Complete the online application. Pay the application fee. (Some professional programs do not have an application fee.)  Applications will not be reviewed until the application fee is paid. Application fee waivers are offered only for McNair Scholars and active/retired U.S. military. 4. Submit any required Test Scores. Baylor's CEEB code is 6032. Confirm with your prospective program what tests they require/prefer (GRE/GMAT). Unofficial test score reports [copies uploaded by applicant] are sufficient for the application process. International graduate applicants CLICK HERE for information on TOEFL and IELTS tests (English-language proficiency). 5. Send Transcripts Unofficial transcripts are sufficient for the application process. If you are admitted with unofficial transcripts, official transcripts must be sent to Baylor to validate your admission credentials. If you are admitted before receiving your Bachelor’s or Master’s degree, you are required to provide an official, final transcript with proof of conferred degree to the Graduate School by the first day of class or a hold will be placed on your registration for the following semester and you may be asked to leave the program . Official transcripts can be sent to Grad_Transcripts@baylor.edu or mail paper transcripts to Baylor University Graduate Admissions, One Bear Place #97264, Waco, TX 76798-7264. International graduate applicants CLICK HERE for information on required documents. If you already have a GoGrad account and would like to access your application, click here. If you have further questions, please refer to the FAQs for Admissions or contact us: Live Chat with Admissions email us at GraduateAdmissions@baylor.edu call us at 254-710-3588 or 1-800-229-5678 (choose option 2). Vaccinations are required for all students under the age of 22.  Click here to review documentation. Admission to the Graduate School at Baylor University is conducted by a formal application process and requires a Bachelor's degree from a regionally accredited institution in the United States, or proof of equivalent training at a foreign university. Baylor University complies with all applicable federal and state nondiscrimination laws. Baylor University admits students of any race, color, national and ethnic origin, sex, age, disability, religion, or veteran status to all the rights, privileges, programs, and activities generally accorded or made available to students at the school. It does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national and ethnic origin, sex, age, disability, or veteran status in administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, and athletic and other school-administered programs. Ultimate approval for admission to graduate study is given by the Dean of the Graduate School after careful review of the recommendation from the department to which you have applied. Baylor Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice of Availability Baylor University is required by federal law to publish an Annual Fire Safety and Security Report. This report includes institutional policies, procedures and programs concerning safety and security. Some of the areas addressed within the report include crime prevention, fire safety, and Baylor’s response to emergency situations and sexual offenses. Three years’ of statistics for certain types of crimes that were reported to have occurred on campus, in or on off-campus buildings or property owned or controlled by the school and on public property within or immediately adjacent to the campus are also included. This report is available online at https://www.baylor.edu/annualcleryreport/. You may also request a paper copy from Baylor Department of Public Safety (254-710-2211). Admissions COVID-19 Admissions Updates How To Apply Apply Now International: English Proficiency International: Required Documents FAQs Admissions FAQs Admitted Students Additional Information for Admitted International Students Graduate Student Housing Community Browning Square The Quadrangle Moving to Waco Admitted Student FAQs New Graduate Student Orientation 2022 Submitting Test Scores Baylor Graduate School Baylor Graduate School Morrison Hall, Suite 200 One Bear Place #97264 Waco, TX 76798-7264 (254) 710-3588 (254) 710-3870 GraduateAdmissions@baylor.edu Live Chat ApplyVisitMake a Gift General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Graduate School Calendar Staff Directory J. Larry Lyon Beth Allison Barr Steve G. Driese Christopher M. Rios Sheila Dooley Sandra B. Harman Anna E. Henderson Tosha A. Hendrickson Eric Hooley Alanna D. Martinez Dana Matthews Alana A. Schaeper Laura Sepanski 2020 Annual Report Admissions COVID-19 Admissions Updates How To Apply Apply Now International: English Proficiency International: Required Documents FAQs Admissions FAQs Admitted Students Additional Information for Admitted International Students Graduate Student Housing Community Moving to Waco Admitted Student FAQs New Graduate Student Orientation 2022 Submitting Test Scores Degrees & Programs Graduate Catalog Baylor Colleges and Schools Benefits & Financial Support Health Insurance Benefits Childbirth & Adoption Short-Term Leave Baylor Funding Opportunities Student Resources Graduate School Deadlines Campus Resources Professional Development All Programs and Workshops On-Campus Research Doctoral Programs On-Campus Master's Programs Online Professional Programs Awards and Funding Opportunities Summer Dissertation Fellowship Doctoral Administrative Fellows Baptist Scholars International Roundtable (BSIR) Baptist College and University Scholars Outstanding Dissertation Award Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Award Outstanding Graduate Research Award BEAR Grants Travel Awards McNair Doctoral Fellowship Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship External Funding Resources Dr. Steven G. Driese Outstanding Grant Proposal Award Completing Your Degree Dissertation & Thesis Resources Requirements for Graduation Completing Your Degree FAQs Faculty & Staff Resources General Resources English for Academic Purposes Program GPS Faculty Development Workshops Graduate Council Graduate Curriculum Committee Graduate Faculty Rights and Membership Proposing a New Graduate Degree Search Grad Faculty Graduate Student Payroll Graduate Program Directors GPD Listing Program Director Statement Resources for Directors Recruitment and Admissions Recruiting Funds Slate Log In