Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Endeavor FAQs Home Events and Programs Endeavor Endeavor FAQs Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Below you will find answers to frequently asked questions about Endeavor. If you have any additional questions beyond what you see below, please contact us at bcendeavor@bc.edu. How do I register? Endeavor registration will open on October 3, 2021 for January 2022 and closes on October 31, 2021. Be sure to check your availability before registering for the program. The registration form takes less than 10 minutes to complete. Will Endeavor be in person? To ensure the safety of our community, Endeavor 2022 will be virtual. We are planning a full schedule to provide you with the same high quality experience. You will be able to participate from home and not cut your winter break short! Does this program cost money? No, Endeavor is a free program! Because of the planning and resources required for the program, as well as the generosity of the alumni who are volunteering their time, there will be a $150 fee assessed to students who sign up and do not show up for the event. Where is Endeavor taking place? To ensure the safety of our community, Endeavor 2022 will be virtual. You will be able to participate from home and not cut your winter break short! Do I have to attend all three days? Yes, because of how the program is designed, students are required attend all sessions of the Endeavor program from Wednesday, January 12 through Friday, January 14. 2022 Schedule Will this event connect me with an internship? Though Endeavor will not directly connect you with an internship, it will open many doors for you. Specifically, Endeavor will give you tools to help you define and articulate your skills, the opportunity to explore career fields that will help you clarify your interests, and introduce you to many BC alumni. Additionally, participating in Endeavor will give you greater familiarity with the many services and resources available to you through the Career Center that will help you search for an internship. Will I receive personalized mentorship? As part of Endeavor, all student participants receive advice from participating BC alumni throughout the day in a variety or large and small group formats. You will be paired with a designated alumni mentor and you will meet with them twice for small group conversations. Additionally, you'll be supported during Endeavor by both a Career Center staff member and an Endeavor Fellow. Endeavor Fellows are highly trained student leaders and former program participants, who will help you reflect on your experience during the program and empower you to reach your goals after the program ends. Who can participate? Endeavor is designed for sophomores and juniors who are unsure of their future career path and are looking to explore a variety of opportunities. What should I wear to Endeavor? Even in a virtual format, how you present yourself if important. Therefore the attire for Endeavor is business casual. If you would like assistance with obtaining business casual clothes, we encourage you to visit our Career Closet. What does business casual mean? Business casual includes pants/slacks/skirts with a shirt/blouse or a dress. Do not wear jeans, shorts, sundress, or athletic wear. Ties are optional. Blazers and cardigans are appropriate to wear over shirts and blouses. Closed-toe shoes, boots, and flats are all appropriate. Are only sophomores allowed to attend? No, Endeavor is now open to members of the junior class within the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences and Applied Psychology Majors within the Lynch School of Education and Human Development. Please note: You may only participate in Endeavor once. We highly encourage you to participate during your sophomore year. Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College