Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News Imaging Technology News: First FLASH proton therapy trial... May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's John Breneman, MD, spoke with Imaging Technology News about the completion of enrollment of the FAST-01 trial, the first FLASH proton therapy trial completed in humans. Webinar: How do I become a more resilient nurse? May 26, 2022 UC College of Nursing faculty combat the problems of burnout and compassion fatigue among nurses by discussing resilience and how to cultivate it. Hoxworth Blood Center and Cincinnati Bengals partner for blood... May 26, 2022 Hoxworth Blood Center, University of Cincinnati, and the Cincinnati Bengals are once again teaming up to host a blood drive at Paul Brown Stadium, 10 a.m.-4 p.m., Tuesday, May 31, in the East Club Lounge. All donors who roll up a sleeve will receive an exclusive “It Is Us” Bengals T-shirt. Free parking will be available on the East Plaza. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Imaging Technology News: First FLASH proton therapy trial... May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's John Breneman, MD, spoke with Imaging Technology News about the completion of enrollment of the FAST-01 trial, the first FLASH proton therapy trial completed in humans. Webinar: How do I become a more resilient nurse? May 26, 2022 UC College of Nursing faculty combat the problems of burnout and compassion fatigue among nurses by discussing resilience and how to cultivate it. Hoxworth Blood Center and Cincinnati Bengals partner for blood... May 26, 2022 Hoxworth Blood Center, University of Cincinnati, and the Cincinnati Bengals are once again teaming up to host a blood drive at Paul Brown Stadium, 10 a.m.-4 p.m., Tuesday, May 31, in the East Club Lounge. All donors who roll up a sleeve will receive an exclusive “It Is Us” Bengals T-shirt. Free parking will be available on the East Plaza. Local 12 News: Developing an app could help transgender people... May 24, 2022 Vesna Dominika Novak, PhD, associate professor in UC’s College of Engineering and Applied Science, spoke with Local 12 News about her research now available in the Journal of Voice. It shows the results of a 57-question survey of 21 transgender and gender diverse individuals focusing on voice, technology app usage, surgery, training and gender expression and identity. Silk layer improves function of surgical masks May 24, 2022 University of Cincinnati biologists found that a double layer of silk in combination with a surgical mask can enhance its ability to prevent the spread of viruses like COVID-19. Connecting through music May 24, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's College of Medicine and College-Conservatory of Music collaborate on the innovative Dementia and the Arts course and intervention for community members with cognitive disorders and their family members. O’Toole co-edits book on women in pediatrics May 23, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Dr. Jennifer O’Toole is co-editor of the book “Women in Pediatrics: The Past, Present and Future.” 55KRC: Naomi Judd suicide brings awareness to mental health... May 23, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Caleb Adler discussed the recent death by suicide of singer Naomi Judd, risk factors for suicide and resources available for those struggling with mental health issues. CPS grad finds ‘UC makes dreams come true’ May 19, 2022 Benya Colleman is one of 10 students who has been awarded the University of Cincinnati’s Marian Spencer Scholarship created to recognize high-achieving students in Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS). Local 12: Mobile stroke unit sees success May 19, 2022 Local 12 highlighted the University of Cincinnati's Christopher T. Richards and the UC Health mobile stroke unit, which has been dispatched more than 1,100 times since launching in August 2020. Local media highlight Stroke Awareness Month May 18, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Eva Mistry and Pooja Khatri were recent guests on local news programs to discuss National Stroke Awareness Month. MSN, Yahoo highlight UC blueberry study May 17, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Robert Krikorian's research into blueberry supplementation for certain middle-aged adults was featured on MSN and Yahoo among other news sites. Two hospital stints give rise to passion for UC nursing grad May 13, 2022 UC College of Nursing's David Moskowitz found his passion for nursing after two stints at Cincinnati Children's. Parade: Fidget toys can be coping tools for depression and... May 11, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Shana Feibel was featured in a Parade article about the benefits of fidget toys to cope with anxiety and depression. Scientific American: Is it COVID-19 or is it allergies? May 11, 2022 Ahmad Sedaghat, MD, PhD, associate professor and director of the Division of Rhinology, Allergy and Anterior Skull Base Surgery in the UC College of Medicine was interviewed for a story published by Scientific American on the differences between allergies and COVID-19. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top