Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Public Health About Programs Apply Students Research News & Events Faculty & Staff Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Undergraduate BSPHPublic Health Minor Masters MHA EMHA MPH MS Biostatistics Dual Programs Doctoral PhD Epidemiology and BiostatisticsPhD Social and Behavioral Sciences Graduate Certificate Population HealthHealth AnalyticsHealth Systems Leadership Interpreter Course Take Action Apply Now Explore Programs News & Events Contact Us Follow SPH Online Facebooktwitter Home School of Public Health Programs MPH-Masters of Public Health Driving Change. Creating Impact. Across Communities. The UofM School of Public Health is one of the nation’s premier metropolitan programs that creates innovators who stand with entire neighborhoods, engage with large groups of people and listen to public voices to solve the toughest problems effecting community well-being. The Master of Public Health (MPH) program offers two options for students: a traditional four-semester program offered in-person or online an accelerated program available for completion within 12 months As our School is a CEPH accredited institution, students are eligible to take the CPH exam upon completion of their MPH core courses. Concentrations NEW! Urban Health This concentration is designed to equip students with the knowledge and skills to address complex health issues specific to urban areas. Focusing on racial disparities and cultural competency, graduates are prepared for positions in government agencies and non-profits to develop and evaluate culturally-appropriate programs and conduct community needs assessments to improve the health of diverse urban populations. View Curriculum > Biostatistics The Biostatistics program trains students in statistics applied to public health and healthcare settings. This professional degree program provides experiential learning in biostatistical methods and data management with large data sets, using using SAS® and a variety of analytic software & techniques. Graduates learn marketable skills that enable them to work in health departments, research institutions, consulting firms, nongovernmental agencies, CDC and WHO field programs, and pharmaceutical companies. View Curriculum > Epidemiology The curriculum focuses on epidemiologic principles and research skills, as well as skills related to the processing, reporting and analysis of data to identify factors that determine the distribution of health and disease in human populations. Graduates of the program are prepared for competitive fellowships as well as employment in health departments, public health organizations, and research institutions. View Curriculum > Generalist The generalist concentration applies concepts that are relevant to the field of public health as a whole, making this level of degree an ideal choice for students who are seeking management positions in policy development or in applied research. In many cases, students who are pursuing dual degrees find the Generalist concentration most relevant to their professional career. View Curriculum > Social and Behavioral Sciences This curriculum focuses on social, behavioral, and environmental determinants of population health risk. Graduates are prepared for positions in government agencies, health systems, and non-profits to develop and evaluate culturally-appropriate intervention modalities that effectively address disparities and improve community health. View Curriculum > For detailed information about the MPH program, including policies, course names and descriptions, visit the Graduate Catalog. Degree Requirements Students enrolled in the MPH program must complete a total of 42 credit hours. This includes: 18 hours of core courses 18 hours of concentration/elective courses if a concentration is chosen: 12 hours of concentration courses and 6 hours of electives 3 hours of practicum/field experience 3 hours of thesis or master's project Graduate students must maintain a 3.0 GPA (“B”). Grades of “D” and “F” will not apply toward any graduate degree, but will be computed in the GPA. No more than 7 hours of “C-“, “C,” or “C+” will be applied towards meeting degree requirements. All requirements for the MPH degree must be completed in 8 calendar years. Download MPH Course Requirements and Semester Schedule> Tuition and Fees For the most current information regarding tuition, visit the University & Student Business Services' Fee Chart. Contact Us For frequently asked questions about the MPH program, please visit our MPH FAQ. Shirl Sharpe, MS Academic Services Coordinator II ssharpe@memphis.edu 901.678.1710 Vikki Nolan, DSc, MPH Assistant Dean and MPH Director vgnolan@memphis.edu Christie Rakestraw Graduate School Admissions Counselor crakstrw@memphis.edu Admissions Info > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/9/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.