COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Reactivation Section Menu Registrar Home Links for Faculty and Staff Links for Students Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) University Catalog Semester & Academic Calendars Schedule of Courses Residency Registration Final Exam Schedule Reactivation Transcripts Certifications Degree Works (degree audit) FAQ Diplomas Granting Student Record Access to Others (Proxy) Transfer to WSU Is Your Record Inactive? A student's record at Wichita State is inactivated if they have not attended within the past two years. Students are also inactivated upon awarding of an undergraduate degree unless they have already been admitted into a graduate program at WSU. To be eligible to enroll again, a student must either reactivate their record or reapply to WSU, depending on the status they had during their previous enrollment and the status they currently seek. The below provides information on the possible situations. Undergraduate or graduate students who have been dismissed, must also apply for readmission with their academic college. Students last enrolled at WSU in graduate school Graduate students who have completed coursework at Wichita State University but have not enrolled in the past 24 months must apply for readmission into the chosen degree or non-degree/certificate program through the Graduate School’s application process. Readmitted students with a previous Plan of Study on file will be required to submit a new plan meeting current degree program requirements. Students last enrolled at WSU as degree-bound UG Students seeking current degree-bound status Students seeking to continue their degree-bound undergraduate status must reactivate their record with the Registrar's Office (see link below). Students who have attended another college or university since last attending WSU must have one official transcript from each school attended sent directly to the Registrar's Office. Such transcripts must be received at WSU before the student may register for classes. Transcripts must be mailed directly to the Office of the Registrar, hand-delivered in a sealed envelope or sent electronically by providers such as the National Student Clearinghouse or Parchment, etc. Reactivation applications will not be completed until all transcripts have been received. Students who do not meet the minimum grade point average for the major chosen on their reactivation application will be placed into an undecided major within the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Students who do not have a 2.0 overall grade point average will be reactivated on probation and into an undecided major within the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. For more information on probation standing at WSU, please visit the catalog. Students seeking current non-degree bound status Students who no longer wish to be degree-bound at WSU may be reactivated as a college guest, general non-degree student or as a non-degree open student. In order to be eligible for non-degree open, you must qualify for one of the below: You have not attended any school (including WSU) for two years; You are currently on active military duty; or You hold a baccalaureate or higher degree. If you are returning to WSU as a degree-bound student for the first time, you must apply through the appropriate Admissions Office. Students last enrolled at WSU as non-degree UG Students whose previous enrollment was only non-degree (college guest, high school guest, non-degree open or general non-degree) must apply through the appropriate Admissions Office for degree-bound admission. Students wishing to continue as a non-degree student will utilize the reactivation process. To Reactivate Your File: Requests for reactivation can be submitted online using the appropriate link below or in person at 117 Jardine Hall on the main campus, WSU West, or WSU South. Click here if you know your myWSU ID and password to log in and begin the process. Click here if you do not have or do not know your myWSU ID and password to complete the WSU security access process. Once you have obtained your myWSU ID and password, click here. To access Admissions applications, go to wichita.edu/apply. Need Help? Contact the Registrar's Office or OneStop at (316) 978-3055. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©