Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Magazine Magazine right arrow down arrow Social justice through medicine Social justice through medicine FEATURE STORIES Debug Query for this Social justice through medicine Carl Fichtenbaum, a professor in the Division of Infectious Diseases at the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine and one of the leaders in UC’s efforts to combat COVID-19, is still going to protest marches as his passion for social justice, personally and profession- ally, burns as brightly as ever. Championing science amid adversity University of Cincinnati epidemiologist Diego Cuadros is used to telling people what they don’t want to hear. The assistant professor runs the Health Geography and Disease Modeling Lab in UC’s College of Arts and Sciences, where he studies global topics such as HIV, malaria and, this year, COVID-19. He condenses data into easy-to-follow maps that predict the future with uncanny accuracy. Bridging the divide It’s been said that one should never discuss religion and politics in polite conversation. Similarly, race and gender have long been considered taboo topics best avoided to prevent conflict. That strategy might work at some dinner tables, but for a group of University of Cincinnati women, tackling tough conversations, challenging perspectives and being vulnerable are the keys to growth and understanding. Remotely possible When did the COVID-19 pandemic first make an impact on your life? March 10? That was the day the University of Cincinnati decided to change something it has excelled at for 200 years. Teaching. Educating. That day UC announced that all lectures in classrooms, experiments in labs or designing in studios would be suspended. Students started what was expected to be just an extended spring break, but then 12 days later all courses had gone virtual to protect the university community and stop the virus’s spread. Query for this Standing in solidarity As protests continue across the world in support of Black Lives Matter following the deaths of Breonna Taylor, George Floyd and other victims of racism and police brutality, University of Cincinnati students — seen here marching on Jefferson Avenue — organized their own peaceful demonstrations around campus.  Photo by Joesph Fuqua II / UC Creative + Brand Standing in solidarity As protests continue across the world in support of Black Lives Matter following the deaths of Breonna Taylor, George Floyd and other victims of racism and police brutality, University of Cincinnati students — seen here marching on Jefferson Avenue — organized their own peaceful demonstrations around campus.  Photo by Joseph Fuqua II / UC Creative + Brand DEPARTMENTS First person Personal growth and perspective in a pandemic From the President's desk COVID lessons of 2020 Down the drive News section takes you to the heart of what’s happening at UC The feed Mentions of UC in the news and on social media Last word Tumultuous times for UC and the world, 50 years apart First person From the President's desk Down the drive The feed Last word Issue Archive University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top