Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell University of Washington Bothell Future Students Admissions Application Dates & Deadlines Campus Visit Degree Programs For Parents Orientation First Year Students Graduate International Post-Baccalaureate Returning Transfer Resources Financial Aid Food Services Housing Transportation Tuition I want to... Attend Orientation Request Information Visit UW Bothell Apply to UW Bothell » Current Students Resources Campus Safety Canvas Catalyst Financial Aid and Scholarships Food Services Registration Time Schedule Tuition Academics Academic Calendar Community-Based Learning Degrees Quantitative Skills Center Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Writing and Communication Center Student Affairs Careers Counseling Center for International Education DACA Resources Disability Resources Veterans Student Parents ASUWB Clubs and Organizations Orientation Recreation Student Affairs My UW » Schools & Programs Academic Affairs Faculty Support Institutional Research & Analysis Division of Academic Affairs Sponsored Research Schools & Programs Business Educational Studies Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Nursing & Health Studies Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) First Year & Pre-Major Program Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Safety Directory General Faculty Organization (GFO) General Staff Organization (GSO) IT MyUW Campus Services Canvas Food Service Room Reservations Commuter Services UW Alert Work Request Working at UW Bothell Accessibility Benefits Human Resources Integrated Service Center Payroll Training and Development Work/Life Balance How do I ... Apply for a Job Contact Campus Safety Find University Forms Get a Husky Card Plan an Event Alumni & Donors Get Involved Advancement and External Relations Alumni Council Distinguished Alumni Award Give to UW Bothell Update your Contact Information UW Alumni Association Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Alumni News Alumni Events Annual Husky 5K Bothell Block Party UW Bothell News UW Bothell Magazine Resources Alumni Services Career Center FAQ's Lifelong Learning UW Bothell Advisory Board How do I ... Find Classmates Get my Transcript Get Tickets to Husky Sports What are you Doing now? Give to UW Bothell » Discover UW Bothell Getting to Campus Building Hours Campus Map Directions Parking Transportation About UW Bothell About Leadership Chancellor Kristin Esterberg Fast Facts Mission, Vision & Core Values News & Events 2010-2020 Annual Impact Report Construction Calendar Emergency Information News Community Community Engagement Campus Tours Employers Visitors Parents and Family Home Undergraduate Admissions Apply Transfer Students Undergraduate Admissions Why UW Bothell Academics Student Life Career Connections Viewbook Apply Application Dates & Deadlines First-year Students How to Apply Admissions Requirements Advanced Coursework Homeschool Students Transfer Students How to Apply Admission Requirements Transfer Planning Worksheets Transfer Credit Policies International Students First Year Students Transfer/Post-Baccalaureatte Students Veteran Students Other Student Types English Language Proficiency Application Review I Applied. Now What? FAQ Costs & Aid Visit Us Virtual Campus Tour Calendar Admitted Students First-year admitted students Transfer admitted students Post-baccalaureate admitted students FAQs Contact Apply Transfer Students Transfer students Applying to college is exciting but going through the process can bring up a lot of questions. We’re here to help you along the way. This page will take you through the basics and lead you to the detailed information you need. START YOUR APPLICATION Am I a transfer applicant? You are considered a transfer applicant if you have completed (or will complete) college coursework from a regionally accredited college or university following the summer after high school graduation, but have not yet earned a bachelor’s degree. Quick Links Start your application Meet with an advisor Major application deadlines Transfer credit policies Transfer planning worksheets FAQs Transfer Admissions Journey What can you expect when you apply to UW Bothell? The admissions journey below outlines the full process from beginning to end. Step 1: Explore DISCOVER What are you interested in studying? The discovery phase in your college search is a time to explore your passions and see how UW Bothell can help you achieve your academic and career goals. Read more about why UW Bothell is a great place to learn and grow! VISIT Come to campus to experience the sights and sounds of our park-like setting and determine if it’s right for you. Set up your virtual or in-person campus visit. CONNECT Speak with an admissions advisor 1:1 to review specific questions you have or conduct a personalized review of your transcripts before applying. Schedule an appointment with an admissions advisor. Step 2: Apply REVIEW ADMISSION REQUIRMENTS The type of requirements an applicant must fulfill depends on how many credits have been completed at the time of application. Review transfer admission requirements. REVIEW THE TRANSFER CREDIT POLICIES UW Bothell has specific policies regarding transfer credit for students pursuing a first bachelor's degree. It's important to know these. Review our transfer credit policies. FIND YOUR DESIRED MAJOR APPLICATION DEADLINE AND START DATE When you apply to UW Bothell as a transfer student, you must also apply to your desired major. Review important dates & deadlines for transfer students. USE OUR TRANSFER PLANNING WORKSHEETS Transfer planning worksheets will help you plan your course of study prior to transferring to UW Bothell. Find the transfer planning worksheet for your desired major(s). COMPLETE YOUR APPLICATION Transfer students use the CollegeNet application, which serves as both the general UW application and the application for your intended major. Your application will also include a personal statement. Find out how to apply to UW Bothell. CHECK EMAIL FREQUENTLY, SUPPLY ANY MISSING ITEMS We may contact you after you submit your application if something is missing and/or to submit final high school or community college transcripts. Keep an eye on your inbox of the email you used to apply. Read more about what to do after you apply. Step 3: Enroll ACCEPT YOUR ADMISSION You did it! Being admitted to UW Bothell is a big accomplishment and another step towards making your dreams a reality. Accept your offer of admission to become a member of the Husky family by paying the $100 deposit. DON'T FORGET ABOUT FINANCIAL AID If you are seeking assistance to help fund your UW Bothell education, consider applying for financial aid. The priority application deadline is January 15 of each year, but you can still apply for financial aid after the deadline. Learn more about financial aid. EXPLORE MORE STEPS Get ready for your arrival on campus by completing all the remaining next steps, such as submitting vaccine documentation and attending Orientation. Read more about admitted students. Transfer Application Deadlines As a transfer student applicant, you'll apply directly to your desired major. Please review our program admission deadlines to see when your desired major accepts applications throughout the year. Start your application The University of Washington Bothell seeks students who can benefit from its wealth of academic and cultural opportunities and contribute to its amazing energy and rich diversity of experiences. Our holistic review process looks beyond grades and standardized tests. START YOUR APPLICATION Transfer credit policies To students pursuing a first bachelor's degree, the Office of Admissions awards transfer credit according to the guidelines discussed here. Admissions reserves the right to accept or reject credits earned at other institutions of higher education. Review our transfer credit policies Transfer planning worksheets Transfer planning worksheets will help you plan your course of study prior to transferring to UW Bothell. They provide a fill-in-the-blank format to track your progress to UW Bothell. The guides also contain information regarding: How to be a competitive applicant UW Area of Knowledge requirements (General Education) Prerequisite courses and equivalencies Find the transfer planning worksheets for your desired major(s) University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington Bothell Division of Enrollment Management Box 358500 18115 Campus Way NE Bothell, WA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.5000 Fax: 425.352.5455 TDD: 425.352.5303 Email: uwbinfo@uw.edu © University of Washington Bothell Privacy Terms Site information Our Campus Academic Affairs Planning & Administration Advancement and External Relations Campus Safety Office of the Chancellor Facility Services Human Resources Parking and Transit Research Support Campus Life Accessibility Financial Aid Food Services Housing Information Technologies Student Life UW Bothell Alert Tuition Academics Canvas Catalyst Library Time Schedule Connect with us