By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About Plan Your Visit Syracuse, NY More from this Section Tips Food & Lodging Parking City of Syracuse Syracuse University is located in the heart of New York state, resting atop a hill overlooking the City of Syracuse. The sprawling campus is just a short walk, drive or bus ride away from downtown. Syracuse Facts The fifth-largest city in the state, Syracuse offers the cultural and business advantages of a midsize city surrounded by expanses of open space and wilderness. #3 most secure large metropolitan area in the nation 144 hotels and other accommodations #17 greenest city in America #1 in snowfall for metropolitan areas in the nation 662,000 residents in the greater Syracuse metropolitan area Things To Do in Syracuse Arts and Entertainment Syracuse is a regional hub for entertainment and is home to museums, art galleries, performance spaces and more. The city hosts multiple events each year, including The Great New York State Fair —a student favorite. Some of our students’ other favorite entertainment venues are the go-carts and movie theater at the local mall, Destiny USA. The city’s squares and parks host food, music and cultural festivals throughout the year. Some favorites include the Taste of Syracuse, Winterfest, Polish Fest, Greek Fest, and the NY State Blues Fest and the AmeriCU Syracuse Arts and Crafts Festival. Museums and history Performing arts Art galleries Dining Experience local, national and international dining options in Syracuse and the surrounding villages. Whether you are looking for a diner, coffee shop, food court or fine dining experience, Syracuse has a variety of restaurants that will satisfy your craving. My favorite place to go for Sunday brunch is Mom’s Diner. My friends and I are regulars, so we have developed a relationship with the owner. - Julia Short ’21 Shopping Syracuse is home to the third largest mall in America, Destiny USA, with familiar large retail chains and a wing of discount outlet stores. If you step off campus or take a short trip downtown, you’ll find a wide variety of local boutiques and shops. Close to campus, you’ll also find supermarkets, as well as small grocers and international food markets. Destiny USA Antique and flea markets Boutiques Farmers markets The Great Outdoors More than 170 parks and natural areas surround Syracuse. Residents enjoy a variety of outdoor activities like skiing, hiking, ice skating, swimming, apple picking, rafting, biking, camping and horseback riding. For those who want to escape into nature, the six-million-acre Adirondack Park is just a two-hour drive northeast, and the Catskill Mountains are less than two hours southeast. No matter the season, my friends and I are always doing stuff outdoors. Some of my best memories at Syracuse have been made skiing at Song Mountain, hiking at Green Lakes, and having picnics in Thornden Park. -Gina Bouza ’22 Syracuse City Parks Onondaga County Parks New York State Parks Ski Mountains Hiking Trails Outdoor Activities Outdoor Activities Organized by Syracuse University The Barnes Center at The Arch offers exciting ways for students, faculty and staff to enjoy outdoor recreation activities across all seasons. Outdoor Adventure Ski and Snowshoe Center Tennis and Golf Day Trips Syracuse is surrounded by many incredible towns and tourist destinations that are perfect for a day trip. Whether it’s swimming in the gorges in Ithaca, exploring the lakeside shops in Skaneateles, visiting the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown or going to Niagara Falls, there are so many places nearby to explore! Visit Ithaca Visit Skaneateles Visit Cooperstown Visit Niagara Falls Transportation There are many ways to get out and explore Syracuse. Many spots popular with students—including parks, restaurants and shops—are just a short walk or bike ride away from campus. The campus shuttle has direct routes to Destiny USA, Tops Supermarket, Target and the downtown area. The on-campus Zipcar program provides cars on demand. Taxis and major rideshare companies operate in and around the city. Other transportation resources can be found through Parking and Transit Services. Featured Stories Inspired by Architecture Students use photography to explore local history, learn about design and build connections. Related Pages Syracuse Convention and Visitors Bureau Explore all that the City of Syracuse has to offer, including places to stay and eat, and plenty of things to do. Connective Corridor The Corridor creates a connection between the City and University, making it easier for students to access many downtown activities. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy