Skip to main content ISU Index Menu iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z ISU Quick Links Menu Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Outlook More Sign Ons... College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Main menu Main Menu About Administration Calendar Committees Departments and Centers Diversity Faculty & Staff Global Programs Lecture Series Satellite Campuses Alumni and Friends Alumni Relations STORIES Magazine Giving Research Research Highlights For Researchers Farms Students Student Services Majors Request Information Schedule a Visit Scholarships Careers Study Abroad Graduate Programs Online Learning Extension Extension Resources Ag and Natural Resources Secondary menu Administration Calendar Committees Departments and Centers Diversity Faculty & Staff Global Programs Lecture Series Satellite Campuses Read more about Among World's Best Among World's Best Iowa State ranks among the best in the world for agricultural programs. It ranks in the top 4 percent of 401 worldwide programs of agriculture and forestry programs by QS World University Rankings. QS World University Rankings About the College The College of Agriculture and Life Sciences is one of the world’s leading institutions of agriculture, with more than 160 years of leadership in science, education and extension. The college educates future leaders, conducts mission-oriented research and shares new knowledge for the betterment of Iowa and the world. The college is one of eight colleges at Iowa State University, which is one of the most influential land grant universities in the nation. The Iowa Agriculture and Home Economics Experiment Station is the research division of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences that helps Iowa remain a world leader in food production and address societal issues linked to agriculture: economic development, life sciences, the environment, public policy, families and communities. The college is a leader in moving into a new era of discovery about living organisms and life processes. Responding quickly to emerging needs, providing leadership to solve critical challenges and partnering to achieve goals are trademarks of the college. #1 – The College of Agriculture and Life Sciences leads the nation in faculty with federal grants and is also #1 in faculty who have received awards and honors. #2 – Faculty in agriculture and life sciences at Iowa State rank second nationally for research findings published in scientific journals. Over the last five years, Experiment Station scientists successfully brought in more than $276 million in external funding to address critical needs and expand scientific frontiers. The College of Agriculture and Life Sciences offers 26 undergraduate majors and 35 graduate programs in addition to hands-on opportunities for students to hone skills in leadership, communications and cultural competency, within and across disciplines. The college hosts the nation’s largest career fair and employers compete for our graduates: placement has been 97 percent or higher for 23 consecutive years. Approximately $4 million in scholarships are offered to students annually through the college and its departments. The college leads the campus in four-year retention rates and four-year graduation rates. Iowa State’s agricultural and biosystems engineering undergraduate program tied for second and its graduate program ranked second nationwide, according to U.S. News & World Report. Students studying biology at Iowa State will find themselves at the No. 3 ranked biology program in the state of Iowa, according to Niche. CALS students interested in entrepreneurship can become involved in the Start Something College of Agriculture and Life Sciences program. Iowa State recently was ranked No. 11 for undergraduate entrepreneurship programs, according to Princeton Review and Entrepreneur magazine. Extension to Agriculture and Natural Resources (ANR) serves Iowans daily, delivering science-based information and education vital to farmers, businesses, communities and consumers. ANR also listens to understand needs, emerging issues and help plan for the future. ANR is the largest unit in ISU Extension and Outreach, involving 51 faculty and staff in 10 departments and 42 field specialists across Iowa. The ANR Extension network of campus-based state specialists and field specialists include: agricultural engineering, commercial horticulture, farm management, field agronomists, beef specialists, swine specialists and dairy specialists. Dean's Message Daniel J. Robison Endowed Dean’s Chair In the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, or CALS, you’ll engage your purpose and passion to understand the world around you, make it more productive and improve the condition of people, communities, economies and landscapes wherever they are. Faculty and Staff The college has 302 tenure/tenure eligible faculty, 107 term faculty, and 527 professional and scientific staff members in 15 departments. Eight departments are co-administered by another college. Nine faculty members have received national honors from the USDA Food and Agricultural Sciences Excellence in Teaching Awards. The college has 39 named faculty positions. About the College Fact Sheet (pdf) Student Experience The College of Agriculture and Life Sciences delivers quality, experiential educational programs, that provide opportunities for students to graduate with skills in leadership, communications and cultural competency, within and across disciplines. The college provides a welcoming, inclusive environment that inspires success. Agriculture Experiment Station Iowa Agriculture and Home Economics Experiment Station's work represents the efforts of 177 scientists in 15 departments and 25 centers, institutes and initiatives.The dean of the college serves as director of the Experiment Station and the associate dean for research and discovery serves as associate director. ANR Extension and Outreach Extension and Outreach is the university-wide outreach component of Iowa State University, and has a fundamental role in the land-grant missions of teaching, research and extension. It has a presence in each of the state’s 99 counties, with educators, specialists and volunteers living and working across the state. Alumni Our alumni are strong supporters of the college and university. More than 26,000 of our 49,192 alumni live in Iowa – 44% have donated to Iowa State University and 75% report they are likely to recommend the college. The top five words our alumni use to describe the college are: outstanding, solid, strong, excellent and respected. Development The Iowa State University Foundation is the private gift fundraising arm for Iowa State University. As part of this partnership, the foundation has development staff housed in each of the colleges to raise funds that meet the needs of each. For each of the past three years, alumni and friends have given more than $30 million to support students, faculty and programs. Global Programs The college is a national leader in student participation in study-abroad programs. Students are encouraged to integrate international dimensions and perspectives into their educational and career goals. For more than 65 years, the Global Programs unit has led international programs to countries in Africa, Asia, Latin America and Europe. The college’s goal is to help students become global citizens with multicultural views. Budget Overview ( pdf ) Strategic Plan Endowed Positions $4 mil. in scholarships are offered to students annually through CALS and its departments. 98% of College of Agriculture and Life Sciences graduates reported they were working, continuing their education or serving in the military within six months of receiving their diplomas. 4% Iowa State University's agricultural programs rank in the top 4% worldwide among other agriculture and forestry institutions, according to the 2022 QS World University Rankings. College of Agriculture and Life Sciences 138 Curtiss Hall 513 Farm House Lane Ames IA 50011-1050 cals@iastate.edu (515) 294-2518 Facebook Twitter Instagram Vimeo STORIES Site Index Copyright © 2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility