Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Bursar Office Policies Bursar Office Policies Policies Bookstore Purchases Grad Guard Tuition Protection Plan Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Returned Student Account Payments Student Account Refunds Study Abroad Title IV Authorization Forms Tuition Leave Refund Policy Questions about charges on the student account: Inquiries or information concerning payment options, changes in billing name or billing address, late payment charge assessment, refunds, and the Installment Payment Plan (IPP) are handled by the Bursar’s Office. However, since most of the charges or credits that appear on the statement do not originate in the Bursar’s Office, questions about a specific item should be directed to the office responsible for the charge. Department contact information can be found in the department links on the Fee Charts. In case of billing errors, the amount in question need not be paid while we are investigating the matter provided that documentation is submitted to the Bursar’s Office prior to the payment due date. However, the remainder of the bill, which is due and not in question, must be paid by the due date. Past Due Balances and Financial Holds: Account balances not paid by the payment deadlines are assessed a 1.5% Late Payment Charge per month on any unpaid balance. In addition, students with past due balances will have a Bursar hold placed on the student record. The Bursar Hold prevents students from receiving academic transcripts or diploma, charging Bookstore purchases to the student account, or preregistering for classes. Once the student account is paid and cleared, holds are automatically released and student privileges are restored. Students who fail to make payment in full by the prescribed deadlines are assessed a late payment charge of 1.5% per month on any unpaid balance. Outstanding balances greater than $100 will prevent a student from receiving an official transcript from the University. Outstanding balances greater than $1,000 will prevent a student from pre-registering for any subsequent semester. Students who fail to meet their financial obligation in accordance with established University regulations will have the status of their account reported to the University Student Account Committee for appropriate action, which may include cancellation of eligibility for enrollment and/or dismissal. The University reserves the right to refuse to furnish grades, transcripts, certificates, diplomas, letters of honorable dismissal or recommendations, for students who fail to pay their student account balances. The University utilizes the service of a commercial collection agency to assist in the collection of unpaid student accounts. Refer to the Brown University Bulletin Financial Information for additional details. Overpayments: Brown University will only accept payments to cover educational expenses that appear on the student account. Brown reserves the right to return any overpayments directly to the originating bank or the student/payer may opt to keep the credit on the account to cover future charges. Home About First Year Students / New to Brown Student Account & Electronic Billing Tuition and Fees Financing & Payment Options Installment Payment Plan Policies ARP HEERF III FAQ Bookstore Purchases CARES FAQ Grad Guard Tuition Protection Plan Returned Student Account Payments Student Account Refunds Study Abroad Title IV Authorization Tuition Leave Refund Policy 1098T & Education Tax Information Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1839 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2484 Fax 401-863-7518 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Cashier's Office Loan Office Financial Services Resources Bookstore Brown Dining Health Insurance Home Student Life