Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Decision Neuroscience PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Decision Neuroscience PhD Apply Events Request More Info Decision Neuroscience PhD Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Doctor of Philosophy in Decision Neuroscience The Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Decision Neuroscience from Temple University’s Fox School of Business provides doctoral students with the foundation, tools and support to conduct cutting-edge research in order to better understand how people make choices. The field of decision neuroscience—and related areas such as neuroeconomics and neuromarketing—allows the exploration of psychological, economic and social phenomena such as addiction, consumer behavior, interpersonal conflict and risky choices. These fields of study prepare students to pursue careers as researchers in academia as well as roles in the business, healthcare and social services industries. As one of the few schools offering this cutting-edge doctoral program, Temple provides students with the unique opportunity to work alongside faculty who are at the forefront of their fields, highly awarded, and frequently published in top-tier research journals such as the Journal of Marketing Research, Journal of Neuroscience and Proceedings of National Academy of Sciences. In this inherently interdisciplinary program, students work closely with faculty and students from different academic areas to conduct research in a variety of fields, including business administration, economics, engineering, philosophy, physics and psychology. In addition to a collaborative academic environment, students have access to Temple’s state-of-the-art research facilities such as the Center for High-Dimensional Statistics, the Center for Neural Decision Making, the Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratory, and Temple University Neurocognition Laboratory. The PhD curriculum structure is intended to prepare students for individual research by combining classroom learning with hands-on lab experience. Specifically, all students will be required to complete two lab rotations in their first year as part of their curriculum, an aspect that is unique to this program. Learn more about research opportunities for Fox students. Request Information Learn more about the Decision Neuroscience PhD program. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Request Information Apply Classes & Curriculum In the first two years of the program, doctoral students complete a seminar, required and elective coursework, and research rotations that prepare them for independent work in the field of decision neuroscience. Some of the course options are as follows. Introduction to Decision Neuroscience Seminar in Cognitive Psychology Seminar in Judgment and Decision-Making At the end of two years, PhD candidates take a comprehensive exam at which point they can begin work on their dissertation with their research advisor. Learn more about Decision Neuroscience PhD curriculum. Related Graduate Degrees Applied Sociology PSM* Corporate Compliance and Ethics MS Health Administration MHA Human Resource Management MS Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity MS* Psychological Research MS* Psychology PhD* *College of Liberal Arts Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $920.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1262.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Students will work closely with their primary advisors as they navigate coursework and the research dissertation process. Depending on the area of research, students may work with an advisor from the Fox School of Business or the College of Liberal Arts. Program Contact Lisa Fitch is the senior associate director for doctoral programs. Phone: 215-204-7677 Email: foxphdoffice@temple.edu Vinod Venkatraman is an associate professor of marketing and associate director of the Center for Neural Decision Making. Phone: 215-204-1409 Email: vinod.venkatraman@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. Fox offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Supplement your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in Fox. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Fox Professional Speakers invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of student clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-DNS-PHD Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Decision Neuroscience PhD Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info