https://www.ouhsc.edu/ Parent Page: Home id: -1 Active Page: Homeid:13594 The University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center Skip Navigation For: Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Visitors HIPAA search OUHSC Home Directory InsideHSC Web Mail Menu About Provost Office Administration University Leadership Mission History News Views of the Campus Education Prospective Students Libraries Continuing Education Programs College of Allied Health College of Dentistry Graduate College College of Medicine Fran and Earl Ziegler College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Hudson College of Public Health OU Extended Campus Research Update and Preparation of Research Programs at HSC for COVID-19 Vice President for Research Research Administration Clinical / Patient Researcher Profiles Core Facilities Human Research Participant Protection (HRPP) and Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Healthcare Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Visitors The University is proactively monitoring COVID-19. Stay updated with the latest information and what’s being done to protect the OU community. Learn More Comprehensive patient care, research, and training Every day, the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center educates more than four thousand students and residents to strengthen our state’s healthcare workforce; discovers new treatments for disease; and provides Oklahomans a unique resource for highly skilled, compassionate care across all children’s, women’s and adult specialties. OUHSC is dedicated to improving the quality of life for those we serve -- both today and for future generations. Education at OUHSC Allied Health Dentistry Graduate Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Education at OUHSC The University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center is one of only a few comprehensive health centers in the nation with seven health professional Colleges; Allied Health, Dentistry, Medicine, Nursing, Pharmacy, Public Health and Graduate Studies – OU Health Sciences Center serves approximately 4,000 students in more than 70 undergraduate and graduate degree programs. Allied Health College of Allied Health Diagnosis of disease and disorders, wellness and prevention, therapeutic and rehabilitative services, health care administration, and allied health professions education encompass the spectrum of professional programs in the College of Allied Health. Website Dentistry College of Dentistry In addition to a Doctor of Dental Surgery program, the College offers a Bachelor of Science degree in dental hygiene. There are also graduate and residency programs in advanced general dentistry, orthodontics, periodontics, and oral and maxillofacial surgery. Website Graduate Graduate College The Graduate College grants Master of Science (MS) and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degrees and is home to approximately 300 students enrolled in 35 nationally and internationally recognized research-based programs. Website Medicine College of Medicine The OU College of Medicine offers robust undergraduate and graduate medical education programs, along with a variety of community service opportunities, designed to prepare today’s students to become tomorrow’s skilled and compassionate health care leaders. Website Nursing Fran and Earl Ziegler College of Nursing Fran and Earl Ziegler College of Nursing is a nationally-recognized college offering bachelor's, master's and doctoral level programs to professional nurses from throughout the world. Website Pharmacy College of Pharmacy The College offers the Doctor of Pharmacy professional degree program and graduate programs in the Pharmaceutical Sciences leading to the Master of Science and Doctor of Philosophy degrees. Website Public Health Hudson College of Public Health The Hudson College of Public Health provides quality graduate and professional education for both public health practice professionals and research scientists and is one of only 50 accredited schools of public health in the United States. Website News Updated Information About the Coronavirus (2019-cCOV) The links below contain important information from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and University of Oklahoma administration about the current Coronavirus outbreak, including symptoms, potential health risks, and recommended prevention steps. Please continue to monitor the HSC COVID-19 resources page at: https://ouhsc.edu/coronavirus for further updates and announcements. OUHSC COVID-19 Response Plan (.pdf) OUHSC COVID-19 Screening and Reporting Tool Centers for Disease Control Coronavirus Information Employee & Student Health Clinic How to Print Your Oklahoma State Vaccination Record, April 5, 2021 New More News > Events May 31 Tuesday, May 31 - Thursday, June 2 Spring Lean and Six Sigma Certification Workshops (virtual) View Full Calendar > The University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center 1100 N. Lindsay, Oklahoma City, OK 73104 (405) 271-4000 OU Campuses: Norman - Tulsa - Oklahoma City HIPAA Notice of Privacy Practices Report a HIPAA Privacy Complaint Information Technology IT Service Desk Contact Directory Maps & Directions Human Resources Job Search OU Report It! Facebook Copyright © 2022 The Board of Regents of the University of Oklahoma. All rights reserved. Disclaimer | Copyright | Equal Opportunity Employer | Mission Statement Built and Managed by OU IT Web Services Login