Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Physical Health Headaches What are headaches? A headache is not a disease, but it may indicate that something is wrong. Headaches are common and generally are not serious. Approximately 50% to 75% of all teens report having at least one headache per month. However, more frequent headaches can be upsetting and worrisome for you. The most common headaches in your teens and early twenties are tension headaches and migraines. Sometimes these problems may require a visit to your medical provider. What causes headaches? Headaches are most commonly caused by: Illness Headaches often are a symptom of other illnesses. Viral infections, strep throat, allergies, sinus infection, and urinary tract infections can be accompanied by headaches. Fever may also be associated with headaches. Skipping meals Even if you're trying to lose weight, you still need to eat regularly. Fad diets and irregular eating can make you hungry and also give you a headache. Not getting enough fluids, especially on hot days or with increased exercise, can lead to dehydration and cause headache. Drugs Alcohol, marijuana, cocaine, amphetamines, diet pills, and other drugs may cause you to have headaches. Other Causes Often headaches are triggered by sleep problems, minor head injuries, or certain foods (chocolate, processed meats, aged cheese, MSG, red wine, dairy products). Caffeine intake, especially a sudden decrease in caffeine, can cause headache. Sometimes, headaches can also be caused by prescribed medication, such as birth control pills, or tetracycline for acne. Less commonly, headaches can be caused by a dental infection or abscess, and jaw alignment problems (TMJ). Although headaches are only rarely caused by eye problems, pain around the eyes--which can feel like a headache--can be caused by eye muscle imbalance or not wearing glasses that have been prescribed for you. Only in very rare cases are headaches a symptom of a brain tumor, high blood pressure or other serious problem. What are the common types of headaches? Tension headaches These headaches often feel like a tight band around your head. The pain is dull and aching and usually will be felt on both sides of your head, but may be in the front and back as well. Tension headaches sometimes start in the shoulders and move upward to the back of the head. Pressure at school or at home, arguments with parents, roommates, friends, having too much to do, and feeling anxious or depressed can all cause a tension headache. Signs of depression include loss of energy, poor appetite or overeating, loss of interest in usual activities, change in sleeping patterns (trouble falling asleep, waking in the middle of the night or too early in the morning), and difficulty thinking or concentrating. Migraine headaches These headaches are often described as throbbing and usually are felt on only one side of your head, but may be felt on both. A migraine may make you feel light-headed, with nausea and/or vomiting. You may see spots or be sensitive to light, sounds and smells. If you get migraines, chances are one of your parents or other family members also had this problem. When should I see my medical provider? If you are worried about your headaches or if they are disrupting your academic work, home or social life, see your medical provider. Other signs that may warrant medical evaluation include: Head injury. Headaches from a recent head injury should be checked right away-especially if you were knocked out by the injury. Seizures. Any headaches associated with seizures or fainting require immediate medical attention. Frequency. Your headaches are increasing in frequency, or you are using medication to treat the headaches more than twice/week. Degree of Pain. Headache pain is severe and prevents you from doing activities you want to do. Time of attack. Headaches that wake you from sleep or occur early in the morning. Visual difficulties. Headaches that cause blurred vision, eyespots, or other visual changes. Other associated symptoms. If fever, vomiting, stiff neck, toothache, jaw or sinus pain accompany your headache, you should be evaluated by your provider. How are headaches treated? If your symptoms are consistent with a tension headache, with none of the more worrisome signs listed above, you can try over-the-counter ibuprofen or Tylenol as treatment. Let your provider know if you are using over the counter medicines to treat your headaches more than twice per week or if you are not getting relief from these medicines. Migraine sufferers should know that many new treatments are available, including medicines that help stop attacks at the very onset of symptoms as well as medicines that prevent migraine on an ongoing basis. Whichever type of headache you get, and whatever the cause, your healthcare provider can explain why you get headaches and how they can be best controlled. Many different types of therapies are available, depending upon the cause of your headaches. These therapies include medication, diet, biofeedback and other stress reduction measures. A headache diary is helpful in both the diagnosis and treatment of headaches. A headache diary helps you keep track of the following: When headaches occur How long they last What you were doing when the headaches started Foods eaten prior to the headache How much sleep you have had Symptoms that accompany the headache Medicines taken What seems to have made the headache better or worse If certain foods are triggering your headaches, your provider may suggest eliminating these foods from your diet. If stress is the culprit, your provider can help you cope by suggesting special treatments such as relaxation exercises, biofeedback, massage, and exercise. Headaches related to emotional/psychological factors may best be addressed through psychological services to get to the cause of the problem. Whatever the cause, headache pain is real. It is important to know that with appropriate medical intervention and follow-up, you can identify the source of your headaches and get this problem under control. Can I make an appointment at Health Services? If you are a Brown student and you are concerned about headaches, you can make a confidential appointment at Health Services by calling 401.863-3953. Health Services provides a range of services including general health care, inpatient services and emergency medical care. You can request a medical provider by gender or by name. We are located at 13 Brown Street on the corner of Brown and Charlesfield Streets. Related Links For more information on headaches, you can visit: WebMD National Headache Foundation About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook