Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Prospective Students Home Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Students At Dedman College, we encourage you to take full advantage of your college experience by cultivating and growing your educational passions. Find the right academic balance in the classroom and compliment your studies with internships, research, clubs, and organizations that are designed to help build relationships and foster your future success. Still have questions? Schedule a Zoom with one of our recruiters, attend a virtual information session, and find your place at SMU. Connect with the Office of Undergraduate Recruiting and Communications. Meet our recruiters, discuss majors and minors, or attend a virtual information session. Ready to get started? Contact us at 214-768-2532 | dedmancollege@smu.edu Kim Konkel Assistant Dean Schedule a virtual appointment with Kim Bryce Nayden Associate Director Schedule a virtual appointment with Bryce Nyemike Okonkwo Undergraduate Recruiter Schedule a virtual appointment with Nyemike Dedman College Scholars Program Financial Aid and Scholarships Resources and FAQs Schedule a Tour “Knowing that I would come to SMU with a cohort of students from a variety of disciplines that would challenge me academically and outside of the classroom was a huge pull for me." – Gabrielle Gard, 2021-22 Goldwater Scholar Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube