Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Programs & Services Assessment Certificates Consultations Departmental Support English Language Support Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Orientations Tutoring Workshops & Roundtables Writing Teaching & Learning Resources Learning Collaborative News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Graduate Student Proctorships in Academic Administration The Sheridan Center is pleased to offer doctoral students several opportunities to gain insights and experience in the interdisciplinary field of teaching and learning. There is a robust job market for work in centers for teaching and learning, but many centers look for some prior experience among applicants. These proctorships will allow a graduate student to explore what it means to have an educational development career and develop many of the key competencies desirable for teaching center positions. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Proctorship in Academic Administration This proctorship offers doctoral students the opportunity to gain insights and experience in the interdisciplinary field of teaching and learning. There is a robust job market for work in centers for teaching and learning, but many centers look for some prior experience among applicants. This proctorship, for Spring 2022, will allow a graduate student to explore what it means to have an educational development career and develop many of the key competencies desirable for teaching center positions including, but not limited to: interdisciplinary peer workshop development and facilitation skills, increased knowledge about the scholarship of higher education and teaching and learning (e.g., active and engaged learning, inclusive teaching practices); the ability to communicate effectively with stakeholders across disciplines and units; the development of interpersonal capacities, including an increased ability to contribute to collaborative or team projects and act on feedback, and the development of research skills in the field, potentially resulting in a publication or presentation. Proctors may have the opportunity to attend a virtual conference or workshop for educational developers. Alternately, for graduate students interested in a career in a teaching-focused institution (liberal arts college or Primarily Undergraduate Institution), this position offers the opportunity to demonstrate a commitment to teaching and develop reflective responses to questions about their personal teaching practice. The Sheridan Center welcomes applications from graduate students from a range of diverse backgrounds who are eager to collaborate with us on inclusive, evidence-based teaching and professional development. Responsibilities The Sheridan Center will construct a portfolio that balances the needs of the center with the professional development interests of the proctor, but expected assignments include: support of workshops on teaching and learning, and support of Sheridan programs and services. Proctors are expected to meet regularly with Senior Associate Director Jessica Metzler to discuss project responsibilities and receive feedback. Proctors are further expected to regularly and critically reflect on their experiences in the Center. In order to perform the proctorship successfully, applicants should demonstrate strong attention to detail, the ability to work collaboratively on a multidisciplinary team and meet deadlines, and have some familiarity with the literature on inclusive, evidence-based teaching and learning (e.g., have participated in Sheridan or departmental pedagogy-focused programs or training). Proctors are expected to devote 18-20 hours/week on average to this position. Eligibility Doctoral students in the Humanities or Social Sciences who will be in their 4th-6th year in 2021-22 Postsecondary teaching experience as a TA or instructor of record (at Brown or elsewhere) is preferred Preference will be given to applicants who have successfully completed the Sheridan Teaching Seminar (Certificate I) Preference will be given to applicants who have experience interacting with one of Sheridan's key areas of work with graduate students—teaching and professional development, Assessment, Digital Learning, English language support, or the Writing Center Funding and Award The Graduate School will support the Spring 2022 stipend, tuition, health insurance, dental insurance and coverage of the health services fee. Application Process By November 8th, applicants should submit the following to [email protected]. CV and cover letter documenting their interest in the position, availability between January 2022 and May 2022, and experience with inclusive, evidence-based teaching and learning (at Sheridan and/or in their home department). These documents should be combined as one Word or .pdf document. A very brief message of support from the applicant’s Director of Graduate Studies. Finalists will be asked to participate in a short interview, which will allow time for applicants to ask questions about the position. Timeline Application deadline: Nov 8, 2021 Finalist interviews: Early-Nov 2021 (Anticipated) Selection notification: Anticipated by Nov 19, 2021 Summer 2021 Proctorships The Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning hopes to welcome a community of five proctors in Summer 2021. Applicants interested in applying to more than one of these positions should submit only one application but specify on a cover page the positions to which they are applying. Applications are due to UFunds by Monday, April 12, 2021. (In UFunds, please see “Graduate School 2021 Summer Proctorships” under “Graduate School COVID-19 Summer Positions.”) For any questions about the position before application, a key contact is listed below. For questions about the Graduate School proctorship program and eligibility, please see the Graduate School Summer 2021 Proctorship webpage. (1) Writing and English Language Support Proctor This proctorship offers doctoral students the opportunity to gain insights and experience in the interdisciplinary field of teaching and learning, especially in the areas of writing and language support. Generally, there is a robust job market for work in centers for teaching and learning as well as writing centers, but many centers look for some prior experience among applicants. The Sheridan Center welcomes applications from graduate students from a range of diverse backgrounds who are eager to collaborate with us on inclusive, evidence-based practices in teaching, writing, and English language acquisition. The proctor will work within the Writing and English Language Support Hub at the Sheridan Center on programming and resources to support teaching and learning. Expected assignments include: Facilitate and coordinate regular graduate student writing groups throughout the summer and support a synchronous graduate student dissertation writing retreat in July. Assist with program design and facilitation for the English Language Program (ELP), an orientation offered for international graduate students for whom English is not a primary language. The program supports students’ transition to Brown through English language practice and exploration of US academic cultural norms and will be offered virtually, with both asynchronous and synchronous components, for two to three weeks in August 2021. Complete a special project, aligned with the proctor’s own interests, which supports writing and/or English-language-learning needs at Brown. The project will be designed by the proctor in consultation with Writing Center and English language support staff. Examples include (but are not limited to): a Sheridan inclusive teaching newsletter article, a small research project, or an online resource for writers at Brown. The time commitment expected is approximately 100 hours over Summer 2021. Proctors are expected to communicate regularly with Assistant Director Charlie Carroll to discuss project responsibilities and receive feedback. Must be available to participate fully (virtually) in the synchronous dissertation writing retreat in early July. The proctor will be asked to help facilitate the retreat, but will also have time to work on their own writing projects. Candidates must have participated in Sheridan or departmental pedagogy-focused programs or training. These include (but are not limited to) participation in a Sheridan certificate program and working as a Writing Associate. Key contact: Charles Carroll (2) Intergenerational Program Development Proctor The Sheridan Center STEM Hub is working to meaningfully include graduate students in our programming. The key area of focus for this proctor would be to research and gather information on STEM graduate student experiences at Brown (including departmental needs); collaborate with staff to develop opportunities for graduate students to participate in intergenerational programming such as Problem-Solving Fellows, New Scientist Collective, and Women in Science and Engineering); analyze AY 20-21 participant feedback; use feedback to inform AY 21-22 programming; and aid with refining current programming by provide a graduate student perspective on our current programming. Additional responsibilities may include aiding in interviewing tutors and developing content for the STEM Hub resources page. Preferred experience in course design, peer mentoring programs, and/or graduate student leadership. Key contact: Stacey Lawrence (3) Instructional Design Assistant Proctor Collaborate with the Digital Learning & Design (DLD) team in their work with faculty and instructors across campus in developing and implementing creative digital solutions for their courses. Proctors will partner with instructors, technologists, and digital design experts to create engaging learning experiences and foster innovative teaching. Proctors will be contributing to summer pre-college and undergraduate courses, as well as to development of Fall courses. Teaching or teaching assistant experience is required and previous pedagogy training preferred. Facility with online tools and platforms essential, including Canvas. All DLD proctors will be included in a proctor cohort who meet regularly with staff to check-in and learn from each other. Key Contact: Liz Crawford (4) Educational Development and Assessment Proctor Collaborate with Sheridan’s Assessment and Interdisciplinary Teaching Communities team with assessment of and updates to educational development programs potentially including Sheridan’s online new graduate TA Orientation and Sheridan Teaching Seminar program, and program assessment and data analysis around the Anchor Program. Must have experience using rubrics to score assignments and using Excel for data collection and visualizations; preference for candidates with demonstrated knowledge of evidence-based inclusive teaching practices (e.g., participated in Sheridan or departmental pedagogy-focused programs or training). Key Contact: Jessica Metzler (5) Educational Media Assistant Proctor The proctor will work with the Digital Learning & Design (DLD) media team to provide research, design, and production support for online and hybrid courses, and internal educational media projects. Depending on the proctor's experience, this may include writing, research, video editing, image curation, and/or graphic design. All DLD proctors will be included in a proctor cohort who meet regularly with staff to check-in and learn from each other. Preference for media or visual art disciplines. Background in media theory, production and/or visual design strongly preferred. Key Contact: Ash Adam Programs & Services Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Assessment Certificates Consultations Departmental Support English Language Support Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Orientations Tutoring Workshops & Roundtables Writing The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top