Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff About us Who are advisers and what do they do? Our general advisers help students plan and shape their undergraduate experience at the UW. In addition to assistance with tasks such as choosing a major and planning course schedules, advisers engage in a broader dialogue with individual students to better clarify their academic and personal goals. As educators, advisers emphasize the core skills of critical thinking and decision-making, and the value of broad exposure to a diversity of perspectives. Who is my adviser? Most incoming students are assigned to one of our advisers through Advising & Orientation. Your assigned adviser is available for you to schedule appointments with. Call or email us if you forgot who your adviser is. Other advising services at the UW include Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity (OMAD) Counseling Services, Student-Athlete Academic Services and the University Honors Program. As you start to narrow down your choice of majors, or if you're already declared, you will want to start meeting with department advisers. General advising General advisers have expertise spanning the whole university. Until you declare a major you might primarily work with general advisers. They can help you: making meaning of your education plan your major match interests with opportunities integrate academic and career plans College and departmental advising College and department advisers have specialized knowledge of their specific area of the university. As you start to narrow down your choice of majors, you will want to meet with the college and department advisers for those majors for program planning and preparing your application for admission to the major. College and department advisers can also connect you with opportunities such as internships & undergraduate research, scholarships, new and one-time course offerings, and special departmental events. Advising Guides Advising Guides can help you craft an undergraduate experience that is meaningful to you. These guides are designed to help you reflect on your goals and interests, while navigating the various academic and co-curricular opportunities available to you. About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Meet your adviser! Get to know the advising staff. Read your assigned adviser's profile and schedule an appointment. University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA