Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Simmons About Simmons About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Academics Academics Applied Physiology and Sports Management Dispute Resolution Counseling Education Policy and Leadership Graduate Liberal Studies Ph.D. Teacher Education Programs & Degrees Fall 2021 Graduate Student Orientation Our Faculty Our Faculty Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Research Research Research Projects Archive 2020-21: Research Snapshot Research Resources Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) Integrative Physiology Laboratory CORE Locomotor Performance Laboratory Research in Mathematics Education Center for VR Learning Innovation Youth Sports Impact Partnership Faculty Research Publications and Presentations Dallas Noyce: A Community-Focused Mathematics Teacher Pipeline Technology and Education Cluster Community Engagement Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute College Access Programs The Budd Center: Involving Communities in Education Institute for Leadership Impact Center for Family Counseling Project Connect West Dallas STEM-Focused School Alumni ☰ Academics SMU Simmons Academics The Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education and Human Development offers doctoral and master's degrees, graduate-level certifications, undergraduate programs and enrichment courses and includes research institutes and community service centers. Degrees, Certificates, and Specializations Admission information, application forms and curricula for these programs can be found on their respective websites. Explore Our Programs Your browser does not support latest Javascript! Please use different browser (Edge, Firefox or Chrome) Program Type Doctoral Programs Master’s Degrees Undergraduate Programs Graduate Specializations & Certificates Area of Interest Applied Physiology & Health Management Counseling Dispute Resolution Higher Education Liberal Studies PK-12 School Leadership Research Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership Teacher Education Wellness Ph.D. Research Prospective Students The Ph.D. program in the Simmons School leads to a broad research-oriented Ph.D. Career and Personal Benefits Graduates of the program are prepared to make significant contributions to research, policy, and practice through academic and research careers in their fields of interest. Program Details Master of Education (M.Ed.) Prospective Students Practicing educators who wish to broaden their academic preparation and classroom skills. Students may specialize in any 1 or 2 of the following areas: bilingual education, ESL, gifted and talented, mathematics, literacy, and STEM education. Career and Personal Benefits Mastery of the content and skills should enable the graduate to be more effective and efficient in his/her job. Additionally, the specialization knowledge may allow the educator to pursue new career opportunities. Program Details Master of Education (M.Ed.) with Certification Preparation Prospective Students The individual who would like to teach and already has a bachelor's degree but who does not have the appropriate teaching certification credentials to teach. This program allows students to pursue a graduate degree and teaching credentials simultaneously. Career and Personal Benefits Graduates often find that they have better presentation and organization skills, but more important, they have a Master’s degree and a new career opportunity. Program Details Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Special Education Prospective Students Practicing educators interested in working with students with special needs. Career and Personal Benefits Content mastery equips graduates to work with special-needs students; they are able to employ evidence-based practices, monitor response to intervention, individualize intervention based on assessed needs, understand special education law and policy, deliver positive-behavior support, and collaborate with the colleagues and families of special-needs individuals. Program Details Master of Bilingual Education (M.B.E.) Prospective Students Ideal for pre-service and in-service Spanish/English bilingual educators who have a near-native or native command of Spanish and English. MBE courses integrate the language and culture of students in the Spanish-speaking world, particularly students of Hispanic heritage living in the United States. Career and Personal Benefits Successful graduates are prepared to work as expert bilingual teachers, bilingual coaches, or leaders of bilingual programs in their schools or districts. Program Details Bilingual Education Supplemental Specialization Prospective Students Teachers who work with students who do not speak English as their native language. Career and Personal Benefits Students who succeed in this 4-course sequence are qualified to take the TExES supplemental certification exam in bilingual education, a passing score on which qualifies them to work with students who do not speak English as their native language. Program Details English as a Second Language (ESL) Supplemental Specialization Prospective Students Practicing educators interested in working with ESL populations. The programs 4 courses may be applied toward SMU’s 36-credit hour Master of Education (M.Ed.) with a specialization in ESL. Career and Personal Benefits Graduates are prepared to take the TExES English as a Second Language (ESL) supplemental certification exam, a passing score on which qualifies them to work with ESL students populations. Program Details Gifted and Talented Specialization Prospective Students Ideal for teachers of the gifted and talented, both specialists and regular classroom teachers. Career and Personal Benefits Those who successfully complete the 4-course sequence (12 credits) are prepared to take the Gifted and Talented TExES (Texas Examination for Educator Standards); those who pass the exam earn GT certification. Additionally, the program‘s courses can be applied to requirements for the M.Ed. degree. Program Details Literacy Studies Specialization Prospective Students Teachers who desire to advance their knowledge of literacy instruction and assessment specifically for early literacy and late literacy and for those who desire to pursue Reading Specialist certification. Career and Personal Benefits Those who successfully complete the program will be more effective teachers, improving student outcomes in literacy. The program's coursework can be applied toward SMU's M.Ed. degree. Program Details Early Literacy Scholars Program Prospective Students K-2 classroom teachers in high-need public schools (including charters). Career and Personal Benefits Those who successfully complete the program’s 18-credit hours are equipped to provide comprehensive, coherent, and complete early-literacy programs in regular classrooms. The program’s coursework applies to the requirements of SMU’s M.Ed. program. Program Details Learning Therapy Specialization Prospective Students Individuals interested in working with children or adults who have dyslexia or related language learning disorders. Career and Personal Benefits Those who successfully complete the specialization are qualified to take the Alliance National Registration Exam for Multisensory Structured Language Education at the therapy level, a passing score on which qualifies the individual for membership in ALTA as a Certified Academic Language Therapist (CALT). Program Details Mathematics Specialization Prospective Students Practicing educators who wish to advance their content knowledge or pedagogical skills for the purpose of teaching mathematics. Career and Personal Benefits Those who successfully complete the 4-course sequence will have the skills and knowledge to model effective mathematics instruction, translate evidence-based research into classroom teaching, differentiate with diverse learners, and instill creative problem solving. The program’s coursework can be applied to SMU’s M.Ed. degree. Program Details STEM Specialization Prospective Students Practicing educators who wish to advance their content knowledge or pedagogical skills for the purpose of teaching science, technology, engineering, and mathematics content. Career and Personal Benefits Those who successfully complete the program are equipped to be more effective STEM educators. Additionally, the program’s 4 courses can be applied to the requirements for SMU’s M.Ed. program. Program Details Teach for America Educator Preparation Program Prospective Students TFA-approved Corps Members who wish to pursue Texas teacher certification. Career and Personal Benefits Those who successfully complete the program are recommended to take the Texas State Board for Educator Certification exams, passing scores on which enable them to pursue teaching credentials. Additionally, the credits earned through participation in this program apply to the requirements for SMU’s M.Ed. degree. Program Details Urban Education Teaching Specialization Prospective Students Urban Education courses are most applicable for pre-service, in-service and other educators who serve diverse student populations, wish to cultivate a justice-oriented culturally responsive classroom environment, and/or are eager to learn relevant classroom and behavior management approaches. Career and Personal Benefits Educators who complete these courses can expect to acquire in-depth knowledge surrounding culturally responsive curriculum development, reducing student behavioral infractions, enhancing teacher-guardian and teacher-student relationships, and inevitably increasing student outcomes. Additionally, educators can expect to garner an all-encompassing historical context of urban education. Program Details Ed.D. in Educational Leadership Prospective Students This program is designed for educators, public officials, and non-profit administrators who are interested in expanding their leadership in service to Pre-K-to-12 students. Career and Personal Benefits The curriculum includes study of ethics in leadership, legal concerns, community engagement, change management, technology, district complexities, talent management, educational policy and politics, and budgeting and finance. Program Details Master of Education: Accelerated School Leadership Prospective Students This program is designed to prepare educators for a variety of leadership positions in pre-K through grade-12 public, charter, private secular, and religious schools. Career and Personal Benefits Through classroom instruction, individual study, collaborative projects, and the application of research-based principles in field settings, students learn about the instructional, ethical, organizational, and administrative aspects of school leadership. Program Details Master of Education: Urban Educational Leadership Prospective Students The M.Ed. in Urban Educational Leadership program is designed for educators who are interested in becoming leaders of urban schools. Career and Personal Benefits Students learn the unique and complex academic and administrative skills and knowledge required to lead an urban school. The program is offered through a unique partnership between SMU’s Simmons School of Education & Human Development and select districts. Program Details Educational Studies Undergraduate Major Prospective Students Undergraduates who wish to become teachers. Career and Personal Benefits Successful graduates are recommended to take the Texas State Board for Educator Certification exams, passing scores on which enable them to pursue credentials for teaching careers in the private and public sectors, graduate work in the social sciences, and informal education paths in non-profit organizations. Program Details Master of Arts in Dispute Resolution Prospective Students Because conflict is a natural and recurring part of all aspects of society, students from all walks of life benefit from a Master of Arts in the study of dispute resolution and conflict management. These skills can enhance current career paths or launch new careers. Career and Personal Benefits Rooted in the social and behavioral sciences, the curriculum provides in-depth study of conflict theory with options for concentration in alternative dispute resolution, organizational transformation and conflict management, executive coaching, and healthcare collaboration and conflict engagement as they apply to business, family, education, public policy, religion, law and healthcare. Field-based opportunities in a variety of settings further enhance the skills of dispute resolution and conflict management. Program Details Graduate Certificate in Dispute Resolution Prospective Students Because conflict is a natural and recurring part of all aspects of society, training in dispute resolution and conflict management can enhance the lives of individuals in a variety of professions and industries. Career and Personal Benefits The seven-course program offers a solid foundation in conflict theory and skill development. Students learn the skills of negotiation, problem solving, mediation, arbitration, and systems design through classroom instruction that includes simulations. Program Details Graduate Certificate in Healthcare Collaboration and Conflict Engagement Prospective Students This program is designed for physicians, healthcare administrators, nurses, healthcare human-resource professionals, and those who seek healthcare leadership roles. Career and Personal Benefits The three-course curriculum teaches engagement and collaborative skills that are grounded in evidence-based social science, fundamentals of neuroscience, emotional and social intelligence, and the fundamental concepts of conflict and conflict escalation and de-escalation. Program Details Executive & Leadership Coaching Concentration Prospective Students One of the fastest-growing fields of management consulting in America, SMU’s Executive and Leadership Coaching Concentration is designed for individuals who want to work as executive coaches or coaching consultants. Career and Personal Benefits The 3-course curriculum offers a comprehensive, classroom-based, learning experience in the areas of theory and practice, professional context, and International Coach Federation competencies. The Concentration can also be taken as a stand alone set of courses leading to a departmental certificate of completion. Program Details Master of Science in Counseling Prospective Students Most students in the M.S. in Counseling program earned their undergraduate degrees in psychology, sociology, social work, ministry work, or education. Career and Personal Benefits The developmental and social sciences comprise the foundation of the curriculum. Students can choose to focus their studies on one or more of the following specialties: Clinical Mental Health; Marriage, Couple, and Family; and School Counseling with additional opportunity for concentrated study in Addiction Counseling, Child and Adolescent Counseling, Expressive Arts Therapies, and LGBT Affirmative Therapy. Successful graduates are able to pursue credentialing as Licensed Professional Counselors (LPC), Marriage and Family Therapists (LMFT), or Certified School Counselors and work in community agencies, churches, hospitals, private practices, and schools. The opportunity to be licensed as Licensed Chemical Dependency Counselor (LCDC) in the State of Texas is also available. Program Details Master of Science in Health Promotion Management Prospective Students This program serves corporate wellness coordinators, account executives, project managers, community health workers, health service managers, and health coaches and educators. Career and Personal Benefits The Master of Science in Health Promotion Management is a collaborative program that combines foundational health promotion courses taught by industry experts with the world-class management courses provided at the Edwin L. Cox School of Business. Graduates typically work in corporate wellness offices, serve as project managers for health programs, work in community health centers, manage health services, and serve as health coaches and educators. Program Details Master of Science in Sport Management Prospective Students SMU’s Master of Science in Sport Management degree is designed for students who have a passion for the business of sport and who aspire to hold senior-management positions in the billion-dollar sports industry. Career and Personal Benefits Cox School and Simmons School faculty members with real-world experience in professional leagues and teams, media and broadcasting, marketing and sponsorship, facilities and sports equipment, and apparel teach the essential business skills of sport management. Program Details Ph.D. in Education - Applied Physiology Prospective Students The program is designed for the student interested in pursuing a Ph.D. with a strong research design and statistics focus in applied physiology. Career and Personal Benefits The curriculum is largely research and statistics based. Program Details Bachelor of Science in Applied Physiology & Sport Management Prospective Students This program is designed for undergraduate students interested in working in the fitness, wellness, health, and sports industries. Career and Personal Benefits The B.S. in APSM degree program explores health, fitness, and human performance from the perspectives of business, physiology, and ethics. Students focus their studies in one of the following areas. • Sport Management: equips students with the business skills necessary for a variety of careers in the sports industry - including media, marketing, facilities, equipment, and apparel sport professions. • Applied Physiology and Health Management: provides in-depth study of the research-based training methods that are used to develop effective lifestyle prescriptions and that equip students with the skills to design and manage fitness and health facilities for a rapidly-growing older population. • Sport Performance Leadership: designed for students interested in sport leadership, instruction, and coaching. Program Details UG Minors in Applied Physiology & Sport Management Prospective Students Undergraduate “minors” serve students pursuing Bachelor’s degrees in departments other than Applied Physiology and Wellness. Career and Personal Benefits An undergraduate “minor” provides an opportunity to explore an academic area other than and in addition to the undergraduate “major” area. The Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness offers three minors: sport management, applied physiology and health management, and sport performance leadership. Program Details Personal Responsibility and Wellness Prospective Students UG students have the opportunity to take two 1-credit PRW activity courses as electives. Facilitating social, physical, emotional, and mental well-being, these fun and energizing courses include rock climbing, racquetball, martial arts, yoga, swimming, basketball, spinning, self-defense, and mountain sports at SMU’s campus in Taos NM. Career and Personal Benefits The 3-credit PRW 3303 and PRW 3305 courses qualify for Common Curriculum (CC) requirements. Self, Identity & Community Engagement (PRW 3303) satisfies the CC’s community engagement, civics and individual ethics, oral communication, and writing requirements. Personal Responsibility and Community (PRW 3305) satisfies the CC’s community engagement, civics and individual ethics, and oral communication requirements. Program Details Doctor of Liberal Studies Prospective Students The Doctor of Liberal Studies (D.L.S.) degree is designed for adult learners who want to challenge themselves with rigorous advanced study on a part- or full-time basis in a variety of topics with the goal of benefitting their workplace, professions and society. Career and Personal Benefits Under the guidance of senior faculty, DLS students engage in focused scholarly reading and research on an interdisciplinary topic or issue, culminating in a doctoral thesis that demonstrates interdisciplinary analysis, synthesis, and interpretation. Program Details Master of Liberal Studies Prospective Students The pursuit of a human-centered, interdisciplinary, Master of Liberal Studies degree from SMU fosters growth for professional and community leaders. Students can pursue their lifelong intellectual passions and enhance their leadership contributions to their professions and the world. Career and Personal Benefits Designed to offer flexibility to students in planning their master’s level study, MLS coursework encourages creative and critical thinking by taking courses in humanities, organizational dynamics, social justice, arts, and culture. Students benefit from building vital skills and examining the human condition from a variety of perspectives in order to meet the problems of the 21st century. Program Details Certificate of Advanced Graduate Study (CAGS) Prospective Students This program is designed for students with a Master's degree who wish to pursue advanced graduate work in a focal area of interdisciplinary study. Career and Personal Benefits The Certificate of Advanced Graduate Study serves to provide adults the opportunity to pursue advanced study in the liberal arts in a focused and disciplined manner. The program encourages in-depth study of a core topic, while drawing upon various disciplines to provide a broad understanding of the subject. Program Details Master of Education in Higher Education Prospective Students This program serves students who want to understand and analyze how institutions of higher education are structured and administered. Graduates are prepared to assume a wide range of roles including positions in student affairs, academic affairs, university administration, education non-profits and more. Career and Personal Benefits Our master's degree in higher education provides students with a holistic understanding of how universities and colleges function. Students will examine theory and engage in practical experiences that will provide them with the skills necessary to lead within varied organizational structures and to serve diverse communities. Program Details Ed.D. in Higher Education Prospective Students This program is designed for mid-career professionals from postsecondary settings and institutions who want to assume advanced leadership roles. Career and Personal Benefits Students graduate as higher education practitioners equipped with the knowledge and skills to solve contemporary problems in their organizations and beyond. Program Details Contact Simmons Contact Us 214-768-7587 sehd@smu.edu Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Southern Methodist University 3101 University Boulevard Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter