Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering Menu Search TTU Whitacre College of Engineering Civil, Environmental, and Construction Engineering Graduate Program Five-Year Environmental Engineering MEV Program The Environmental Engineering Profession Environmental engineering is focused on the prevention and remediation of air, water, and soil contamination problems to reduce the risks to human health, water resources, and ecosystems. Environmental engineering is a discipline that evolved from civil engineering and includes aspects of the sciences (biology, chemistry, and geosciences). Professional opportunities exist in consulting engineering firms, in industries with significant environmental compliance challenges, and in governmental regulatory agencies. Environmental engineers apply physical, chemical, and biological processes in systems that remove and/or destroy pollutants in water, air, and soils and that reduce non-hazardous solid waste volumes. Specific assignments include provision for safe drinking water, treatment and disposal of municipal wastewaters, treatment and management of storm run-off, management of solid and hazardous wastes, and cleaning sites contaminated by hazardous materials. The traditional route to the practice of environmental engineering has been by first obtaining a Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering (B.S.C.E.), or one of the environmental sciences, followed by a Master of Science in Civil Engineering (M.S.C.E.) with an emphasis on courses in the environmental engineering area. The M.S. degree often includes a research component resulting in a master's thesis. The consulting firms that hire environmental engineers have traditionally looked upon the master's degree as an entry requirement. With this requirement in mind, a five-year curriculum was designed to provide a highly competitive professional Master of Environmental Engineering degree (M.Env.E.). The Environmental Engineering MEV Program allows a more concentrated preparation in environmental science topics pertinent to the practice of environmental engineering and emphasizes the design of facilities and practices to rectify environmental problems. This degree program differs from the traditional approach since a B.S.C.E. provides graduates with a broad based background across several of the subdisciplines of civil engineering and does not allow for specialization within the discipline. For example, at Texas Tech University, B.S.C.E. graduates receive course work in structural, geotechnical, transportation, water resources, and environmental engineering. The Environmental Engineering MEV Program and the B.S./M.S.C.E. (with environmental emphasis) programs essentially require the same number of credit hours and require many of the same courses. However, the B.S./M.S.C.E. option typically requires six academic years because of its research component. Environmental Engineering MEV Program at Texas Tech The Environmental Engineering MEV Program at Texas Tech University is a unique program in the United States in which students can directly earn an ABET-accredited Master of Environmental Engineering. The Environmental Engineering MEV Program consists of successful completion of a 5-year "first year-to-master's degree" program administered by the Department of Civil, Environmental, and Construction Engineering at Texas Tech University. The program has been ABET-accredited at the advanced level, which qualifies the program graduates for reciprocal professional accreditation in Europe, Australia, and many foreign countries, and also qualifies them to pursue their professional engineering license in environmental engineering. The Environmental Engineering MEV Program is referred to as a professional degree program because the program stresses engineering practice rather than research. Students in the program have numerous opportunities for internships, summer jobs, and participation in research activities while in the program. Those graduates who choose to pursue the Professional Engineer License are doing so according to the testing and experience requirements of their state's professional engineering boards. The curriculum, consisting of 154 hours of coursework, provides graduates with strong preparation in biology, chemistry, the engineering sciences, and in the specifics of environmental engineering. Students learn to apply the appropriate unit operations or unit processes to treatment systems for solving water or wastewater problem situations. These same systems are applicable to problems encountered in air, soil, and solid/hazardous waste management as demonstrated through advanced courses in these areas. The program strives to instill in each student a spirit of service and leadership and an appreciation of life long learning, as new technological advances and regulatory incentives crop up often. Development of leadership skills, an awareness of professional ethics, and participation in student organizations prepare graduates from the program for professional practice. Students are formally admitted to the Environmental Engineering MEV Program at the end of the second curriculum year after a review is made of the student's progress. Transfer students can be admitted into the program. Those interested in transferring should consult with one of the Environmental Engineering MEV Program advisors to identify courses that will directly transfer between institutions and programs. Each student meets with an assigned faculty counselor at least once a semester to review the student's progress and academic effort. Students are required to take the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) and must meet the university's graduate school admission requirements before enrolling in graduate level courses. Those students who fail to meet the Graduate School guidelines are encouraged to complete the undergraduate curriculum through the fourth year and receive a non-accredited Bachelor of Science in Environmental Engineering degree. Students admitted to the graduate program must then adhere to the graduate school requirements to be eligible for graduation. Objectives and Outcomes Curriculum Table Flow Chart Accreditation The master of environmental engineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering Address Texas Tech University, Box 41023 | Lubbock, TX 79409−1023 Phone 806.742.3523 Email webmaster.coe@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversitySep 10, 2021 1:48 PM Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering About CECE Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering Back Department Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering Back Overview Chair's Welcome Strategic Objectives Resources Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering Back Safety Plan Student Organizations Faculty & Staff Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering Back Faculty Directory Staff Directory Open Faculty Positions News Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering News Back Departmental News Programs Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering Back Undergraduate Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering Back Undergraduate Programs Civil Engineering Overview Civil Engineering Minors Construction Engineering Overview Construction Engineering Minor 5-Year Master's Environmental Engineering Flowcharts FAQ Graduate Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering Back Graduate Programs Online CE Master's Degree Graduate Handbook Graduate Certificate in Construction Engineering and Management Graduate Student Profiles FAQ Financial Aid & Scholarships Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering Back Undergraduate Graduate Internships Advising & Registration Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering Back Undergraduate Advising Graduate Advising Graduate Admissions Research Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering Back Overview Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering Overview Back Research Overview Research Focus Research Areas Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering Back Center for Multidisciplinary Research in Transportation (TechMRT) Murdough Center for Engineering Professionalism National Wind Institute Radon in Texas Water Resources Center Alumni Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering Back Overview Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering Overview Back Alumni Overview Industrial Advisory Board Update Contact Info Civil, Environmental, and Construction Engineering Academy Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering Civil, Environmental, and Construction Engineering Academy Back Overview Construction Engineering and Engineering Technology Academy Meetings Members Inductees Events By-Laws Industrial Advisory Board Department of Civil, Environmental, & Construction Engineering Industrial Advisory Board Back Industrial Advisory Board Advisory Council Bylaws Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index