Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Department of Business Information and Technology Welcome Programs Faculty Research Admissions & Current Students FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Degree Programs Certificate Programs Apply Now Take Action Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home BIT Programs PhD Program in Management Information Systems Ph.D. in Management Information Systems Admissions Course Requirements Current Students The BIT PhD Program at the University of Memphis is one of the largest BIT Programs in the US and the only BIT PhD Program in the State of Tennessee. Our BIT group prides itself on maintaining a supportive research and teaching atmosphere. PhD students who join our program become actively involved in research with partnered faculty from the first semester. Our faculty is diverse in their interests while publishing state-of-the-art applied and theoretical research on the top tier BIT academic journals; focusing on the AIS-6 journals: MIS Quarterly, Information Systems Research, Journal of MIS, Journal of the AIS, European Journal of Information Systems, and Information Systems Journal. We are supportive of multiple lines of inquiry including managerial, behavioral and technical topics and we employ empirical, modeling, experimental, qualitative, design science and econometric methodologies. Our PhD program in BIT benefits from a mix of newer faculty members complementing our existing strong cadre of senior faculty. Our mix of faculty (diverse interests and accomplishments) is very strong with great connections to the Memphis business community through such programs as STEP and CAST(tied closely to FedEx Institute of Technology) for empirical research that has direct applications to practice. The senior faculty has nurtured these business relationships for many years and the newer faculty brings energy and the latest methods and ideas to the group. Our program nurtures our students' innate curiosity while it provides them many priceless resources to answer the questions they ask. The department's faculty currently hold, or have held, editorial leadership positions at ISR, MISQ, JAIS, EJIS, MISQ Executive, Journal of Data Base Management and The Data Base for Advances in Information Systems. The Center for Innovative Technology Management at the University of Memphis also serves as a major research opportunity and support connection between the BIT Department and the many companies with IT organizations in the Memphis area. In addition, a weekly research Colloquium brings our active research team (faculty and PhD students) together to learn and support each other as we engage in research. Guests are always invited to sit in any of our Friday Colloquiums and meet our faculty and PhD students, including Dr. Ritu Agarwal, current Editor-in-Chief of Information System Research, and Dr. Detmar Straub, former Editor-in-Chief of MIS Quarterly. Our PhD students are very active and productive. For example, in 2010, we had 8 students working as volunteers at the International Conference on Information Systems (ICIS - top MIS academic conference in the world) and we had three students' papers appearing in the ICIS Proceedings. During the training program, students will master the core material, gain exposure to the broader aspects of information systems, and expert in at least one specialized area of information systems while working with many top tier research faculties in the field. We welcome you to explore our website to learn more about our BIT PhD program. For further inquiries, please do not hesitate to contact me at hliang1@memphis.edu Dr. Huigang Liang Ph.D. Program Advisor Associate Professor 901.678.4613 | Email Fogelman Administration Building Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/2/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.