Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Start Here The UofM Experience Visit Connect Apply Admitted Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact The Basics Info For... High School Freshmen Transfer International Online (UofM Global) Readmits Graduate Law School Non-Degree Seeking Parents & Families HS Counselors Application Process Deadlines Costs + Value Tuition OverviewResidency PolicyBorder County Waivers Paying for College Student Right To Know Take Action Request Information Apply to UofM Campus Visits and Events Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Admissions Basics Readmit Students Readmit Students For former students who have not enrolled for at least one term (fall or spring) It’s never too late to finish what you started. When former students want to jump back in and continue their UofM education, we are here to make the process as smooth as possible. We can also help you put the financial pieces together to make your college journey affordable. No matter what your situation is, you’ll be glad to be back in a community where discovery and innovation flourish. Where you will be connected to opportunities, like internships, that lead to real work. Where what you dare to dream becomes reality. Do I Need to Readmit? Students who previously enrolled but have been absent for at least one fall or spring term will need to submit a Readmission Application, but don't worry, there are no application fees. Submit a current readmission application for desired entry term. Be sure to have college transcripts sent for all additional course work completed since you were last enrolled. If you had transfer work from when you attended last time, there is no need to resend any transcripts that were already processed once. We appreciate your interest in continuing your education at the University of Memphis. If you need assistance, please contact the Admissions Office at 901.678.2111 or 1.800.669.2678. Reapply to UofM > Cross the Finish Line The UofM Finish Line Program assists students who have completed 90 or more credit hours but have regrettably had to abandon their dreams of completing a college degree. Review the qualifications below to see if you qualify for assistance from Finish Line: To qualify for our program, students must: Have 90 or more earned credit hours Have a stop-out period of at least one semester (fall or spring) Have an overall and University of Memphis grade point average of at least 2.0 Have a maximum of 30 credit hours remaining To verify that you meet the qualifications of the program and to be considered as a participant, please submit your information here. For more information, contact finishline@memphis.edu. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.