skip to Main Navigation skip to Main Content skip to Footer Accessibility feedback NC State Home COVID-19 Updates Resources Campus Directory MyPack Portal Campus Map Libraries Campus Resources University Housing NC State Dining Bookstores Wolfline Buses Calendar Diversity Academic Resources Undergraduate Admissions Academic Departments WolfWare/Moodle Global Engagement Distance Education Academic Calendar Other Resources Student Services Center Cashier's Office Registration and Records Scholarships and Financial Aid Career Development Center NC State Help Desk Outreach and Engagement Giving NC State News Graduate School Gmail Access NC State Social Media NC State University Libraries Logo Navigation Search Find & Borrow Search Books & Media Articles Databases Journals Theses and Dissertations NC State Publications Special Collections Our Website Find Course Reserves Newspapers Patents & Trademarks Standards Tests & Measurements Textbooks Ebooks Government Information Borrow & Request Borrowing & Access Privileges Tripsaver Technology Lending Suggest a Purchase Distance Services Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Study & Learn Assignment Help Choose a Topic Cite Sources Evaluate Sources Find Articles Find a Book Ask Us All Assignment Help Workshops Data and Visualization Digital Media Digital Scholarship Makerspace Research Strategy Virtual & Augmented Reality All Workshops Spaces Reserve a Room Academic Success Center Quiet Study Graduate Student Spaces Explore Spaces Sensory Friendly Maps How Busy is the Hill Library? Technology Technology Lending Software Print & Copy Scanning Wireless Access Working off campus Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Research & Teaching Research Support Citation Management Grants & Funding Research Impact & Metrics Publishing and Copyright Data Management Open Research Faculty Spaces All Research Support Teaching Support Request an Instruction Session Copyright in the Classroom Course Reserves Library Instruction Programs Open Education Videos and Tutorials All Teaching Support Workshops Digital Scholarship Research Strategy Data and Visualization Peer Scholars All Workshops Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Media & Making Digital Media Music & Audio Video Gaming Photography Scanning Virtual & Augmented Reality All Digital Media Makerspace 3D Printing 3D Scanning Cutting & Milling Electronics Textiles All Makerspace Workshops 3D Scanning Studio Orientation Digital Media Orientation Makerspace Orientation VR Studio Orientation All Digital Media Workshops All Makerspace Workshops All Virtual & Augmented Reality Workshops Spaces Hill Library Makerspace Innovation Studio VR Studio Digital Media Lab All Media & Making Spaces Help Ask Us Request a Technology Consultation Drop-In Help for Digital Media Data & Visualization Data & Visualization Finding Data Wrangling Data Analyzing Data Visualization Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Data Management Text & Data Mining All Data & Visualization Workshops Data & Visualization Workshops Digital Scholarship Workshops Research Strategy Workshops All Workshops Spaces Data Experience Lab (DXL) Dataspace Teaching & Visualization Lab Visualization Studio iPearl Immersion Theater Game Lab All Data & Visualization Spaces Help Get Data Science Help Data & Visualization Instruction Support About Contact Ask Us Staff Directory Subject Specialists Jobs Fellows Program Collections About the Collections Special Collections Chancellor's Faculty Excellence Program Memberships & Consortia Our Organization Mission & Vision Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Service Philosophy Fact Sheet Rules & Guidelines Annual Reports & Strategic Plans Performance Measures Honors & Awards News & Events News Events Exhibits Workshops Videos from the Libraries Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Hunt Library Map Hill Library Map How Busy is the Hill Library? Directions & Parking Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Campus Information Centers Get Involved Giving to the Libraries Friends of the Libraries Student Advisory Forum University Library Committee Academic Departmental Library Representatives Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help FAQ Search Today's Hours Hours My Account Log Out Ask Us Chat Link Libraries News The Libraries welcomes three new Libraries Fellows May 16, 2022 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share by email 2022-25 Libraries Fellows: Amir Blair, Beatrice Downey, Hiva Kadivar The NC State University Libraries is pleased to announce the appointment of the 2022-25 class of Libraries Fellows. Amir Blair, Beatrice Downey, and Hiva Kadivar will join the Libraries later this summer. The Libraries Fellows Program develops the academic library leaders of the future, giving new librarians the opportunity to build their knowledge and expertise in a home department and to play a leadership role in an initiative of strategic importance for the Libraries. Fellows are appointed for a three-year term as members of the Libraries faculty. Since its inception in 1999, the program has attracted many highly talented graduates from universities throughout North America. “We are incredibly excited to welcome this year's Libraries Fellows, who represent just some of the amazing talent in what was one of our most competitive and diverse applicant pools to date,” says Tarida Anantachai, Director of Inclusion & Talent Management. “In both their previous experiences and what they shared with us throughout the process, Amir, Beatrice, and Hiva demonstrated the types of robust skill sets, leadership potential, and commitment to fostering equity, diversity, and inclusion that has defined the Fellows Program. We look forward to welcoming them to the Libraries and to the contributions they will undoubtedly make to both our growing initiatives and to the library profession.” Amir Blair will join the Learning Spaces & Services department, with the initiative, “Integrating Equity and Ethics in Library User Services for Data & Visualization,” in Data & Visualization Services. Blair will be the Cyma Rubin Fellow for 2022-23. Cyma Rubin, past president of the Friends of the Libraries and holder of an honorary Doctor of Fine Arts from NC State, is an award-winning producer of musicals, documentaries, and exhibitions, whose endowment helps support recruitment and professional development for the named Fellow. Blair will start his fellowship on July 5. Blair is currently an Instructional Design Intern at the Marshall Student Center at the University of South Florida, where he works with the Responsive Librarianship Lab to develop content for the Canvas learning management system. He also serves as an Event Logistics Graduate Assistant at that center, managing a weekly open-air market, planning and delivering student programming in coordination with campus partners, and supervising student staff in event and vendor management. Blair will receive the Master of Arts in Library and Information Science from the University of South Florida this spring. He also holds the Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology from that university. Beatrice Downey will be in the User Experience department, with her initiative, “Showcasing and Supporting Public Scholarship,” based in Research Engagement. Downey will be the Donald E. Moreland Library Faculty Fellow for 2022-23. Dr. Donald E. Moreland, an alumnus and professor at NC State, established this endowment to help support recruitment and professional development for the named Fellow. Downey will start her fellowship on July 1. Downey is currently a Research & User Experience (R-UX) Intern at the Southern Methodist University Libraries, where her responsibilities encompass Reference & Research Support; Library Instruction; Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion (EDI) initiatives; Community Engagement; and Digital Content Management. She also completed a Community Engagement Practicum at that library and participated in its Digital Humanities Research Institute. While earning her degree and working part-time as an R-UX Intern, she also works as a Department Administrator at State Farm Insurance. She will be awarded the Master of Library Science from Texas Woman’s University this spring, and she holds the Bachelor of Arts in Political Science from Christopher Newport University in Virginia. Hiva Kadivar’s home department will be Research Engagement, and her initiative will be “Promotion of Image Annotation Tools for Teaching and Learning” in Digital Library Initiatives (DLI). Kadivar will be the inaugural Bret D. Davidson Fellow for 2022-23. The Libraries established this fellowship in honor of the late Bret Davidson, who joined the Libraries in 2012 as a Fellow in DLI with an initiative based in Information Technology. He went on to serve as Digital Technologies Development Librarian and Associate Head in DLI before his death in 2020. Kadivar will start her fellowship on June 1. Kadivar joins us from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where she serves as Assistant to the Middle East and Islamic Studies Librarian. In this role, she manages collection budgets, maintains specialized approval plans, and collaborates with technical services units to facilitate access to research materials. She provides research consultations and instruction to faculty and students and develops research guides. She is also participating in the 2021 cohort of the IMLS-funded LIS Education and Data Science Integrated Network Group (LEADING) Fellowship Program where she works on transforming and enhancing the Farmworker Movement digital collection at the University of California San Diego Library using data science tools and techniques. Kadivar received the Master of Library Science from North Carolina Central University in May 2021, and she holds the Bachelor of Arts in Sociology from the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. She also completed the NC State University Libraries’ Library Technology Career Jumpstart Program in 2020. Tags Library Fellows, Data & Visualization Services, user experience, Research Engagement Upcoming Events Sign up for occasional emails about programs and events. Subscribe Jun 12 WKNC Presents: Truth Club, Bleary Eyed, Infinity Crush at the Library Loading Dock 6:00pm to 7:00pm Jun 14 Friends of the Libraries Hill Library Tour 5:30pm to 7:30pm More events Top of page Contact D. H. Hill Jr. Library 2 Broughton Drive Campus Box 7111 Raleigh, NC 27695-7111 (919) 515-3364 James B. Hunt Jr. Library 1070 Partners Way Campus Box 7132 Raleigh, NC 27606-7132 (919) 515-7110 Libraries Administration (919) 515-7188 NC State University Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Copyright Privacy Statement Accessibility at the Libraries Accessibility at NC State University Staff Confluence Login Staff Drupal Login Follow the Libraries Facebook Instagram Twitter Snapchat LinkedIn Vimeo YouTube Twitch Flickr Libraries' news ×