Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Information Technology Services Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Get Help IT Portal System Status News Newsroom Email Newsletter Resources For Students For Employees Computer Requirement MFA Outdoor Wi-Fi Remote Work Projects Adobe Acrobat Sign Azure Server Migration Campus Email Storage@ISU WorkCyte Website Teams Digital Accessibility Research Security About About ITS Staff Directory Employment Our Culture Strategic Plan Annual Report Join the Information Technology Services Team Information Technology Services employs full-time professionals and part-time students in a variety of positions across 20+ teams, from network engineers to systems analysts, web developers to staff who provide direct customer support. Working for ITS, you’ll find yourself in a dynamic environment, learning best practices in supported technologies, and most importantly, helping the Iowa State community succeed. 138 Full-time staff 2200 Years of combined experience at ITS 111 Student employees 18 Majors represented by student employees Current Full-time Openings Click on the job title to view the job description and to apply on the Iowa State University jobs portal. Director of Research Computing Services Project Implementation Analyst Benefits of working at Iowa State Student Employment ITS employs over 100 student employees across many different teams. As a student employee, you'll work with professional staff, gain skills you can take with you and make your resume stand out. ITS offers convenient on-campus work locations, flexible scheduling to work around your classes and competitive pay. All majors are welcome to apply. Student jobs fall into multiple categories including software development, physical infrastructure and customer success. These categories are comprised of multiple jobs that have similar functions. By submitting an application, you’ll be considered for all available jobs in all categories. Please note that not all jobs are hiring at all times. Technical Assistants and Customer Service Multiple ITS teams employ technical assistants to work on customer-focused projects and tasks. The IT Solution Center is Iowa State's on-campus tech support resource, employing more than 40 student employees. Located in Parks Library, the IT Solution Center technical assistants help students, faculty and staff with technology support like resetting passwords, setting up accounts, troubleshooting internet issues and more. The audiovisual experience team is responsible for installing, updating and maintaining various audio and video systems in over 200 general university classrooms and campus meeting spaces. Technical assistants will work with the professional staff to complete classroom updates, maintain equipment and more. Endpoint technologies manages faculty and staff devices, among other equipment. Technical assistants will provide life-cycle management for Windows and Apple computers, on-site troubleshooting and computer hardware repairs. NetCom manages everything related to the Iowa State network: access points, cabling, network design and architecture and more. Technical assistants will work with professional staff to keep the Iowa State network up and running. ITS is always looking for technically-minded students to join our team of technical assistants. Student employees can expect flexible scheduling to work around your class schedule, competitive pay (starting at $13.00/hr) and real-world experience that makes a real impact on campus. Apply Now Physical Infrastructure Assistant The physical infrastructure team employs students on real-life, high-impact construction and electrical engineering projects including campus capital projects (new buildings and remodels), large IT projects (rewiring sections of campus, upgrading IT closets), and daily service and support work. This is a great opportunity for construction or civil engineering students to get hands-on experience with: multi-million-dollar projects that improve Iowa State University electrical (low voltage) and communications cabling design IT project management learning how to design, build, support, maintain, and sustain a 10,000 square foot enterprise server room in the campus data center Students will learn key skills and context needed to work in the many global data centers in Iowa and around the world. Apply Now Software Developer Student Application Developers work as part of modern agile teams, tackling projects both big and small. You'll gain real-world coding experience, solve complex problems and build upon your skillset while positively impacting the university. We count on the skills, dependability, and self-motivation of both our full-time and part-time staff to meet the needs of our university’s faculty, staff, students and clients. Our different teams each focus on one or more of the following technologies: Java, Spring Framework, JUnit, Thymeleaf, JSP PHP, MySQL, Zend Framework C#, .NET Framework, Visual Studio Android Java, Android Studio (IntelliJ), Android SDK iOS Programming, Objective C, Swift, Xcode, iOS SDK JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, ReactJS On many of these teams, we have opportunities for systems analysis, database design, software development, quality assurance, project management, and more. Apply Now WorkCyte Associate The WorkCyte Phase II: Student Information and Receivables project seeks undergraduate students with a self-starter attitude to join our team as a WorkCyte Associate assisting our project team with various implementation tasks. As a student employee of the WorkCyte team, you will receive experience implementing Workday's cutting-edge cloud technology platform. We have a variety of opportunities available to fit your interest and career goals. Business operations: assist our business teams with process design, process documentation, configuration, prototyping, testing, and deployment. Project and change management: help our team stay on schedule and budget, prepare the campus for change by creating knowledge articles, training, and communications. Technical: help our technical team with conversion, developing integrations, report writing, or security. All positions start at $14.00 per hour, offer flexible scheduling up to 20 hours per week during fall and spring semesters and up to 40 hours per week during the summer and breaks. Required Qualifications Cumulative GPA of 3.2+ preferred Ability to take direction and complete work independently Strong communication skills with a customer service focus Skilled in Microsoft Office suite; knowledge of Visio is a plus Adaptability, problem-solving and critical thinking skills Keen attention to detail with data entry and list management Preferred: Experience with Microsoft Outlook scheduling, Excel, Stream, and Teams, and/or HTML and CSS Apply Now Information Technology Services 271 Durham Center Ames, IA 50011 Submit Website Feedback Need tech support? IT Solution Center 192 Parks Library Ames, IA 50011 solution@iastate.edu 515-294-4000 phone Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information