Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Tickets Box-office Info Forward Arrow Box-office Info Back Arrow Back Education Forward Arrow Education Tri-ART Back Arrow Back Host Your Event Forward Arrow Host Your Event Back Arrow Back Support Forward Arrow Support Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About People Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Brooks Center for the Performing Arts About Us Tickets Box-office Info Education show submenu for Education Tri-ART Host Your Event Support About show submenu for About People Clemson Home Centers and Institutes Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Current: About OUR MISSION 1. Present outstanding artists and attractions. 2. Encourage new artists and experimental works. 3. Develop and educate diversified audiences to the performing arts. 4. Support the educational mission of the Department of Performing Arts. HOME FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS Established in 1994, the Brooks Center is the hub for the performing arts in Clemson. This 87,000-square-foot facility serves as a professional roadhouse, hosting world-class professional dance, theatre and musical performances throughout the academic year in its spacious, yet intimate, 979-seat proscenium auditorium. Its 100-seat blackbox theatre is home to exciting student theatre performances, and a small recital hall serves as a multi-purpose space for classes, gatherings and student performances. In addition to professional productions, the Brooks Center is also home to the Department of Performing Arts, offering a dynamic, hands-on undergraduate experience. Through conferences and professional engagements made possible by donors, our students add to their resumes and build connections that will jumpstart their careers when they graduate with a Bachelor of Arts in performing arts. The department is a vibrant part of the College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities with more than 50 faculty and staff, more than 100 performing arts majors and more than 5,000 students participating in ensembles and taking classes. With courses ranging from music theory and theatre history to scenic design and stage management, students of all majors are welcome to take classes and perform in ensembles. History Brooks Center for the Performing Arts The dedication of the Robert Howell Brooks Center for the Performing Arts on April 15, 1994 launched a new and exciting phase in Clemson University's dedication to the performing arts. The opening of the nearly 90,000-square-foot facility was the result of almost two decades of petitioning, strategic planning, fundraising, and construction. However, the performing arts at Clemson can be traced to the early part of the century. The establishment of the Brooks Center was a clear sign that Clemson University recognized the essential role of the arts in a great university community. Robert Howell Brooks (1937-2006) Brooks Center Benefactor Robert Howell Brooks is a man whose philanthropy and love of Clemson University inspired him to give generously to his alma mater. His $2.5 million dollar gift established the Brooks Center for the Performing Arts and has enabled hundreds of thousands of patrons to experience world-class performances, and given countless students the opportunity to pursue their artistic passion. Mr. Brooks took his place in a long line of Clemson philanthropists dating back to the original gift of Thomas Green Clemson to the state of South Carolina. Mr. Clemson gave so that the youth of South Carolina could receive a quality education, and W. B. Camp, a beneficiary of Mr. Clemson’s vision, also gave so that students like Robert Brooks could afford to attend Clemson University. Mr. Brooks made the most of the scholarship that Mr. Camp provided for him, and he honored this tradition of generosity with many contributions to the university. His legacy is intertwined with the generations that preceded him and stands to inspire those who follow. Inclusion and Equity The Brooks Center for the Performing Arts and the Department of Performing Arts faculty and staff are united in standing against the perpetuation of systemic racism, oppression, and racial violence. Injustices and the mindset they reflect have marred this country for centuries. Our society is failing to be fair, equitable, and just. We as a department of performing arts acknowledge our complicity. We are committed to making contributions toward systemic change by taking the necessary steps to more deeply understand and fulfill our mission to build a diverse, equitable, and inclusive community through the performing arts in our programming and study; the classes and content we teach within our areas of audio, music, theatre and dance; the audiences we engage; the casting and hiring we do; the students we attract and support; and the examples we set. An inclusion and equity team has been charged to formulate an action plan that details specific programs, practices, and services that will be implemented to support and achieve our goals. The action plan with an implementation timeline and expected measurable outcomes will be made public as soon as possible. We will hold ourselves, and one another accountable as we pledge to collaboratively identify and establish authentic initiatives to serve our Clemson BIPOC community and other marginalized individuals. Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Copyright © Clemson University Brooks Center for the Performing Arts | 221 Brooks Center, Box 340525, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3048 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook YouTube Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson