Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Engineering The concentration in Engineering equips students with a solid foundation for careers in engineering, to advance the knowledge base for future technologies, and to merge teaching, scholarship, and practice in the pursuit of solutions to human needs. Degree Type A.B., Sc.B. school School of Engineering More Information All Programs Related Academic Areas Advanced Materials Research Computer Science Physics Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Engineering The concentration in Engineering equips students with a solid foundation for careers in engineering, to advance the knowledge base for future technologies, and to merge teaching, scholarship, and practice in the pursuit of solutions to human needs. The concentration in Engineering equips students with a solid foundation for careers in engineering, to advance the knowledge base for future technologies, and to merge teaching, scholarship, and practice in the pursuit of solutions to human needs. The concentration offers one standard Bachelor of Arts (A.B.) program and eight Bachelor of Science (Sc.B.) degree programs. Of these, the Sc.B. programs in biomedical, chemical, computer, electrical, materials, and mechanical engineering are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET. The Sc.B. degree program in environmental engineering is not currently accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, but will seek accreditation during the 2020-21 academic year. The engineering physics program is also offered, but is not accredited by ABET. Other programs leading to the Sc.B. or A.B. degrees in Engineering may be designed in consultation with a faculty advisor. These programs must meet the general requirements for concentration programs in the School of Engineering. Students interested in an individualized program should consult with an Engineering faculty member willing to serve as an advisor and obtain the approval of the Engineering Concentration Committee. Engineering students with a particular interest in using their technical skills for the public benefit might also consider the Engaged Scholars Program. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Engineering Open details for Engineering Bookmark this Page