Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller PhD FAQs Home » Programs » PhD » FAQs Menu PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Here are answers to some frequently asked questions about the Scheller PhD program. Directions, Parking, and Accommodations How do I get to the Scheller College of Business? View detailed directions and parking. How do I get from the airport to the Scheller College? Many visitors take MARTA (light rail) from the airport. There are two MARTA stations (North Avenue and Midtown) within blocks of the College and there are a variety of hotels and restaurants in the immediate vicinity. There are many other options for traveling to and from Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport to Midtown Atlanta. Are there hotels near campus? Yes. There are many hotels to choose from near the College of Business and the Georgia Tech campus. Here are several options:(ask for Georgia Tech rates) Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center (across the street from Scheller College of Business) 800 Spring Street NW, Atlanta, GA 30308 Reservations: 404-347-9440; 800-706-2899 This full-service hotel located on the Georgia Tech campus, offers restaurant, bar and room service seven days a week as well as numerous restaurant options just steps away. The hotel also features free wireless internet, fitness center (including indoor pool) and FREE transportation on the Tech Trolley that stops right in front of the hotel. Remember to take your picture with the Ramblin' Wreck on display in the lobby! Ask for the Georgia Tech rate! Many of the hotels listed below also offer Georgia Tech rates. Be sure to ask! Georgian Terrace (.5 miles from Scheller College of Business) 659 Peachtree Street Atlanta, GA 30308 404-897-1991 Hilton Garden Inn/Homewood Suites (0.5 miles from Scheller College of Business) 97 10th Street NW Atlanta, GA 30309 404-524-4006 Hotel Indigo Atlanta Midtown (.5 miles from Scheller College of Business) 683 Peachtree Street. NE Atlanta, GA 30308 404-874-9200 Regency Suites Hotel (.3 miles from the Scheller College of Business) 975 West Peachtree St. NW, Atlanta, GA 30309 800-642-3629 Renaissance Atlanta Hotel Downtown (.1 mile walk from Scheller College of Business) 866 West Peachtree Street NW Atlanta, GA 30308 678-412-2400 Residence Inn Atlanta Midtown / Historic (.5 miles from Scheller College of Business) 1041 West Peachtree Street Atlanta, GA 30309 404-872-8885 Residence Inn Midtown/17th at Peachtree hotel (1.2 miles from Scheller College of Business) 1365 W Peachtree St NE Atlanta, GA 30309 404-745-1000 Tell me more about Tech Square. Learn more about Tech Square. Tell me more about Atlanta. Learn more about Atlanta. Program Information How is the social life on campus and within the PhD program? Students in the PhD program find Georgia Tech can be a community within itself. The campus offers a wide variety of intramural sporting events, arts and crafts workshops, drama and theater, and many other activities. PhD students often meet at the end of the week to socialize at area restaurants and gathering places. PhD student organizations sponsor community and public service events, student/faculty mixers, and tournaments. The Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority (MARTA) and Georgia Tech’s Stinger bus system provide convenient transportation and access to downtown and other metropolitan Atlanta areas. For those looking for adventure, many students take road trips to neighboring states, go rafting on the Chattahoochee River, or cycle or in-line skate through nearby Piedmont Park. Georgia Tech and Atlanta offer an unlimited variety of social events and activities to meet the interests of PhD students. For more information, please visit the Campus Life website. Application Process How are applications to the PhD Program evaluated? Applications to the PhD Program are evaluated compared to other PhD applicants in the academic area. Considered in the admission decision are undergraduate (and graduate, if appropriate) academic performance, GMAT or GRE scores, TOEFL scores for international applicants, work experience, essays, interviews, letters of recommendation, and other documentation supporting the application. Applications are reviewed individually and are also compared to the students currently enrolled in the program and to the current group of applicants. The admission committee looks for students who will be successful academically and are capable of doing outstanding research in their field. Are there any prerequisites to the PhD Program? Applicants should have a strong background in college-level mathematics, particularly knowledge of linear algebra, calculus, and statistics. Applicants to the PhD program must take the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) or the Graduate Record Examination (GRE). Additionally, all international applicants must take and submit the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). A TOEFL score of at least 100 on the computer adaptive test or 600 on the paper version is required. How do I obtain a brochure/viewbook for the PhD Program? To request a brochure, complete one of the following methods: Complete the online PhD Brochure request. Send your full name and mailing address to phd@scheller.gatech.edu Call 404.385.3896 to speak with the Associate Director of the PhD program. What is the application deadline for the PhD Program? We accept applications for fall admission only. The application deadline is January 6. How can I apply? In order to apply to the Scheller College of Business, you must submit an online application. The online application for the fall term is now available. Please visit the Graduate Studies and Admissions website to begin your application. What materials must be on file before the application is considered complete and can be evaluated? A complete application consists of the Georgia Tech Institute application, the application for Georgia residency, the PhD application, essays, two official transcripts from each college/university attended, three letters of recommendation, and official TOEFL/GMAT/GRE scores. I may not be able to get all of my application materials in by the deadline. What should I do? Applications completed after the deadline will be considered on a space-available basis. I am scheduled to take the GMAT, GRE, or TOEFL exam(s) right before the application deadline, so I won't have my official scores in time. What should I do? You may include your unofficial scores on your application form as well as submit a copy of the unofficial scores. While an official decision cannot be made until we receive the official scores from the Pearson-Vue, we can begin processing your application with the unofficial scores. When and how will I receive the admissions decision? You should receive the admission decision by April 15th. Decisions will be emailed to the email address provided in the application upon request. Decisions can never be given over the phone or faxed. Do you accept the GRE in lieu of the GMAT? Yes, we will accept either the GMAT or GRE for admission consideration. The test must be taken within five years of our receipt of your application. If your score is more than five years old, you should plan to retake the test. Are applicants to the PhD Program required to interview? If the faculty members in your area have additional questions, they will contact you to schedule an interview. Does the Scheller College of Business accept applications for the spring semester? No. Applications are only accepted for the fall semester each year. Can I complete the PhD program on a part-time or distance-learning basis? No. The PhD is a full-time program only. There is no part-time or distance-learning option. International Applicants Are applications from non-United States citizens treated differently in the admissions process? International students must submit a TOEFL score and financial documents. Apart from these items, international applications are evaluated in the same manner as US applicants; however, application processing may take longer due to the review of foreign transcripts and financial documents. Who is required to take the TOEFL? Students whose native language is not English and who have not successfully completed one year of study at a US college or university must submit a valid TOEFL score. Some applicants are eligible to waive the TOEFL. Please visit the Graduate Studies website to see if you meet the qualifications. What is the minimum TOEFL score needed to be admitted? The minimum TOEFL score is 100 on the computer adaptive test or 600 on the paper and pencil exam. What are the educational requirements for admission for students educated outside the United States? Am I eligible to apply for admission with a three-year baccalaureate degree? All applicants to the PhD Program must hold the equivalent of a US bachelor’s degree to be considered for admission. A three-year degree is not equivalent to the US bachelor’s degree. Neither professional designations nor work experience will count toward the fourth year of study. No exceptions will be made to this policy. Is there financial aid available for non-United States citizens? All PhD students receive a Graduate Assistantship from the Scheller College of Business. How do I receive a visa? All non-US citizens must provide a certified financial statement outlining the financial resources available to them for their studies in the United States when they are accepted into the program. The Associate Director of the PhD program will contact the admitted student to process the visa. No visa documents will be issued until the Graduate Office receives documentation that the applicant has sufficient resources to meet the expenses for at least the first year of graduate study at Georgia Tech. Georgia Tech does not begin processing I-20s for the fall semester until May before the beginning of the fall term; this procedure results from the fact that the Georgia State Legislature does not approve the budget (tuition) until April. The I-20 will be delivered to the student via express mail. What if I am a permanent resident? If you are a permanent resident of the United States, you must include a copy of your permanent resident card, both front and back, with your application. Permanent residents are exempt from the TOEFL and are not required to submit financial documents. Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures