Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Biology Undergraduate Education Site Navigation Home Concentrations Biology for First-Years Courses BIOL 0200 Replacement | AP/IB Transfer Credit Writing Requirement Research Maria L. Caleel '87 Memorial Undergraduate Biology Research Fellowship Honors Diversity and Inclusion Peer Advising Curricular Resources Senior Prizes After Brown Employment Opportunities News & Facebook Print this Page Share this Page Arnold Laboratory Brown University Box GA-124 91 Waterman St Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3133 Fax 401-863-7411 Stay Connected with Biology Undergraduate Education Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Biology Undergraduate Education Employment Opportunities Employment Opportunities Employment Opportunities Position Title Position Details Lecturer in Biology The Program in Biology at Brown University is seeking applicants for a lecturer track faculty position with expertise and teaching experience in general introductory biology, molecular biology, cell biology, and biochemistry. The position involves teaching contributions in up to four undergraduate courses per year, formal academic advising, and service to the Program in Biology. Teaching contributions will include instruction in the Program’s gateway course Foundations of Living Systems and the Program’s Biochemistry course. Both courses enroll a large number of students from the biological sciences and other STEM concentrations, as well as the University’s pre-med population. The Lecturer will also contribute teaching to additional (new or current) undergraduate Biology courses, based on their expertise and Program needs. In addition to teaching responsibilities, general duties include academic advising of first year and sophomore students, advising of concentrators in the biological sciences, and service associated with the undergraduate program. Engagement with evidence-based STEM pedagogy is an essential component of this position. We seek candidates with demonstrated success teaching undergraduate courses in the biological sciences that enroll, support and assess diverse student learners. The Program in Biology values inclusive teaching and advising, innovative pedagogy, and especially welcomes candidates interested in STEM education scholarship within the context of their teaching. Lecturers in Biology have the opportunity to mentor undergraduate research projects through independent study courses and contribute to new and ongoing curricular and co-curricular programs. Lecturers, Senior Lecturers and Distinguished Senior Lecturers at Brown are part of the regular faculty with voting rights. The position will be based in the Biology Education Section of the Medical Science Academic Unit in the Division of Biology and Medicine and have a secondary appointment in the Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry. The initial appointment would be a renewable 3 to 6 year appointment, depending on rank, performance and review. Lecture track positions are 10 month appointments from September through June. Opportunities to supplement income in July and August are available by teaching in the University's Pre-college and Summer Undergraduate programs. Sabbatical/paid Scholarly Leaves are available after accumulating the requisite number of semesters in the position The Program in Biology strives to build a diverse and inclusive environment for all members of our community, and so we are particularly interested in candidates whose teaching, advising, service, and scholarship (if applicable) can further our efforts. Brown University aims to foster a diverse, equitable and inclusive environment, and its detailed vision and action plan for realizing this commitment is articulated in Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion. The Program in Biology is similarly committed to building a diverse faculty and strongly encourages women, underrepresented minorities, and those who can contribute to the excellence, diversity, and inclusivity of our academic community to apply. The position is expected to start September 2022. In selecting candidates, we will consider evidence of effective undergraduate teaching in the biological sciences (specifically in general biology, molecular biology, cell biology, and biochemistry), commitment to diversity and inclusion, and compatibility with the area needs and interests of the Program, as well as potential for effective participation in department or university activities. Brown University is committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive academic global community; as an EEO/AA employer, Brown considers qualified applicants for employment without regard to, and does not discriminate on the basis of, gender, race, color, national origin, sexual orientation, religion, protected veteran status, disability, or any other legally protected status. Founded in 1764, Brown University is a leading Ivy League research university where students and faculty collaborate to address the defining challenges of a complex and changing world. Its campus is in vibrant Providence, Rhode Island, ranked as one of the 20 most ethnically diverse cities in the United States, with more than 40% of its residents identifying as Hispanic and 16% Black or African American. It boasts vibrant immigrant communities that are well represented in the city's leadership and education system, as well as its civic and cultural organizations. One of Rhode Island's most attractive attributes is the diversity of the people who have made the state their home. Brown University is located in Providence, RI, on Narragansett Bay, an hour from Boston and three hours from New York City. Providence has been consistently rated among the Northeast's most livable cities and is home to diverse intellectual, artistic, and business communities. Brown offers a competitive benefits package including a tuition aid program for dependent children and a range of programs and services to assist in balancing work, personal, and family commitments. Brown's Handbook of Academic Administration provides the summary of policies, regulations and benefits applicable to faculty and academic administration at the University. Qualifications: PhD in the Biological Sciences. A minimum of three years experience teaching undergraduates in general biology, molecular biology, cellular biology, and biochemistry. Qualified teaching experience includes primary/secondary instructor appointments above the level of a teaching assistant. Experience with college advising and/or mentoring is preferred. Experience with course design and formal assessment is desirable. Experience teaching large introductory courses is desirable. Ability to work collaboratively with different stakeholders: students, faculty, senior administrators and staff. Exemplary professionalism as demonstrated by excellent communication skills, collegiality, ability to administer the needs of a large number of stakeholders (course enrolled students and advisees) Review of applications will begin immediately and will continue until the position is filled or the search is closed. Interested individuals should upload a curriculum vitae, cover letter addressing interest and fit, and a maximum two page statement that describes contributions to university level biology-based education: instruction, course design and assessment, curricular contributions, and advising. The teaching statement should include future goals as an educator and specific examples of why and how inclusive classroom practices as well as other high-impact practices are integrated into current/past courses. Apply at https://apply.interfolio.com/103548 Also in Biology Undergraduate Education Site Navigation Home Concentrations Biology for First-Years Courses BIOL 0200 Replacement | AP/IB Transfer Credit Writing Requirement Research Maria L. Caleel '87 Memorial Undergraduate Biology Research Fellowship Honors Diversity and Inclusion Peer Advising Curricular Resources Senior Prizes After Brown Employment Opportunities News & Facebook Print this Page Share this Page Arnold Laboratory Brown University Box GA-124 91 Waterman St Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3133 Fax 401-863-7411 Stay Connected with Biology Undergraduate Education Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity