HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation HOME DIVISIONS Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Healthy Campus HEALTH TOPICS ADHD Alcohol and Other Drugs Antibiotics Body Image Building Social Connections Fitness Interpersonal Violence Mental Health Nutrition Social Media and Internet Use Sexual Health Sleep Spring Break Safety Stress Suicide Sustainibility Tobacco Wellness When to See a Provider CONTACT ABOUT POLICIES & RECORDS Advance Directives Diversity Eligibility Health Fee Privacy Practice Records & Confidentiality Rights & Responsibilities Primary Care Immunizations and Allergy Injections Laboratory Nurse's Clinic Pharmacy Radiology Women's Clinic Sexual, Reproductive and LGBTQ Services Sports Medicine Immunizations and Allergy Injections Immunization Requirements All entering undergraduate and graduate students are required* to: Complete Student Immunization Forms or obtain a verified** copy of your immunization record. Upload completed documents and enter immunization dates in MyHealth-e*** (Student Health Services' secure, online health portal). Log in to MyHealth-e using your Clemson username and password. Click "Medical Clearances" to upload your documents and enter vaccine dates. Complete the Tuberculosis Risk Assessment Questionnaire in MyHealth-e. In the “Medical Clearances” tab, click “Update” for the “High Risk Tuberculosis Screening Questionnaire.” If you have trouble logging in to MyHealth-e, you can print and mail/fax*** the form: Tuberculosis Risk Assessment Questionnaire All forms should be submitted prior to July 1 for summer/fall enrollment and December 1 for spring enrollment. Students not in compliance with the immunization requirements may have a hold placed on future registrations and may be subject to a late fee. *Exception: If you are only enrolled in online courses, you do not need to comply with medical clearance requirements. However, if you receive notices of non-compliance, contact Health Information at 864-656-2234 or e-mail redfern@clemson.edu. **Acceptable forms of verification include one of the following: Personal shot records that are verified by doctor's stamp or contain a health provider's signature Personal shot records with a clinic or health department stamp Military Records or World Health Organization (WHO) documents Previous college or university records that are verified ***You may also mail or fax completed documents to: Redfern Health Center Clemson University Box 344054 Rm: 34 Clemson, SC 29634-4054 Fax: 864-656-0760 Required Vaccines MMR: for students born after 1956, two doses required after 12 months of age Tdap: single dose required for all students age 64 or younger Meningococcal Vaccine (Menactra, Menveo): required after sixteenth birthday for all students age 21 or younger. If received initial dose before 16th birthday, booster is required. Students must present proof of vaccination, or may sign a waiver declining the vaccination. Tuberculosis Test: a T-SPOT or QuantiFERON GOLD is required for any student who has resided or traveled outside of the U.S. for more than two weeks within the last five years or has other TB risk factors or if you answered “Yes” to any questions in the Tuberculosis Risk Assessment Questionnaire. Screening is REQUIRED upon arrival to Clemson, or documented proof of screening performed in the U.S. within the past 12 months. TB screenings performed outside of the U.S. and PPD skin test will not be accepted. As of January 2016, all students are required to complete the Tuberculosis Risk Assessment Questionnaire. Students with a prior positive tuberculin screening must bring a copy of a chest X-ray report (translated in English), within the last three months. Students who are receiving treatment for tuberculosis should bring copies of all treatment records, including medical notes, laboratory reports and X-rays. Recommended Vaccines Human Papillomavirus (HPV): see information below Serogroup B Meningococcal (MenB): see information below Pneumococcal: see information below Hepatitis A: series of two vaccines Hepatitis B: series of three vaccines; can also be combined with Hepatitis A Varicella: series of two vaccines The majority of the recommended vaccines are available at Redfern Health Center. Learn More About the Vaccines Above Exemptions If completion of medical clearance requirements is contraindicated for medical reasons, approval of the healthcare provider is required along with documentation of the need for the exemption and signed Medical Exemption Form. If a religious exemption is requested, complete the Religious Exemption Form. Allergy/Immunization Clinic Allergy Injections Contact Student Health Services on your arrival to campus and set up an appointment by calling the Appointment Line at 864-656-1541. Allow one to one-and-a-half hours for the first visit to meet with the physician, the allergy nurse and complete the paperwork. After that, a 30-minute waiting period is required each time you receive your injection. Bring your vaccine and physician's orders with you to your first appointment. Injections will NOT be given unless instructions are complete and signed by your physician and an initial injection has been administered in your medical doctor's office. A registered nurse administers allergy injections for students who provide their own antigens with specific instructions from patient's private allergist. Allergy injections are given by appointment Monday-Friday during the fall and spring semesters, and Tuesday afternoons and Thursday mornings during summer semesters. A physician is always present when allergy injections are given. See paperwork that must be in place before receiving allergy injections at Redfern. Allergy Injection Fee The fee for a single allergy injection is $18. The fee for a student receiving multiple allergy injections is $29. If necessary, cancel or reschedule your appointment by 11:59 p.m. the day before the scheduled appointment. Fees will be applied for missed appointments and late cancellations. Immunizations Available Student Health Services offers the following immunizations at Redfern Health Center for a nominal fee: Flu Vaccine Hepatitis A and B Vaccines HPV Vaccine (Gardasil) MMR (Measles, Mumps, Rubella) Vaccine Meningococcal Type A,C,W,Y (Menveo) and Type B (Bexsero or Trumenba) Pneumococcal Vaccines (Prevnar 13 and Pneumovax 23) Rabies Vaccine Shingrix Vaccine Tetanus/Diphtheria (Td) Vaccine Tetanus/Diphtheria/Pertussis (Tdap) Vaccine Typhoid Vaccine Chickenpox Vaccine (Varivax) Tuberculosis screenings are also available. Vaccine Information Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccine 9-valent (HPV 9) [Bivalent (HPV2) and Quadrivalent (HPV4) are no longer available] The HPV vaccines are indicated for prevention of cervical cancers in women and for use in both natal male and natal females for the prevention of pre-cancers and genital warts, anal cancer and anal intraepithelial dysplasia caused by HPV types included in the vaccine. No HPV or Pap test screening is required prior to administering vaccine; routine cervical cancer screening should continue according to current recommendations per the American College Health Association. Administer Human Papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine to natal females through age 26 and natal males through age 21 years (males aged 22 through 26 years may be vaccinated based on individual desire for protection and clinical decision). Adults with immunocompromising conditions (including HIV infection) through age 26 years: Administer 3-dose series at 0, 1-2, and 6 months. Men who have sex with men through age 26 years: administer 2 or 3-dose series depending on age at initial vaccination; if no history of HPV vaccine, administer 3-dose series at 0, 1-2 and 6 months. natal = gender assigned at birth Serogroup B Meningococcal Vaccine (MenB) MenB-4C (Bexsero, 2 dose series) MenB-Fhbp (Trumemba 2 or 3 dose series) Meningococcal disease is a serious illness caused by a bacteria. This disease can lead to meningitis, which is the infection of the lining of the brain and spinal cord. Meningococcal disease often occurs without any warning and may even infect people who are otherwise healthy. This vaccine may be administered to young adults age 16-23 for short-term protection. Other at-risk populations include people with certain medical conditions that weaken or affect the immune system and also people in proximity to other individuals who have contracted the disease. Meningococcal vaccines should not be given to pregnant or lactating females unless at an increased risk. There is also a precaution for individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to latex when receiving the MenB-4C (Bexsero) vaccine. MenB-4C and MenB-Fhbp are not interchangeable, so the same product must be used for all doses. For MenB-4C: 0-2 months For MenB-Fhbp: 0-2-6 months Pneumococcal Vaccine Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine (PCV13, Prevnar13) Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Vaccine-23 (PPSV23, Pneumovax 23) Pneumococcal disease is caused by bacteria that spreads from person to person through close and proximal contact. Pneumococcal disease can cause pneumonia, bacteremia or even meningitis. Children under the age of 2, adults over the age of 65 and others who exhibit unhealthy lifestyle habits are amongst those with the highest risk. PPSV23 protects against 23 types of pneumococcal bacteria; however, it will not prevent all pneumococcal disease. Anyone that has ever had a life-threatening allergic reaction to a dose of the PCV13 or PPSV23 vaccine, to an earlier pneumococcal vaccine called PCV7, or to any vaccine containing diphtheria toxoid (ex. DTaP) should not be administered PCV13 or PPSV23. SCHEDULE AN APPOINTMENT CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster