Skip to main content Faculty Directory Cornell Engineering Apply Visit Give to Engineering Industry Partners Home Programs Undergraduate Programs M.Eng. Degree in Ithaca Financial Engineering Concentration and Cornell Financial Engineering Manhattan (CFEM) Ph.D. Program M.Eng. Degree at Cornell Tech Courses Research ORACL ORIE Research Groups ORIE Research in the News Covid Modeling Event People Academic Leadership Faculty Graduate Students Faculty Openings Staff Ph.D. Students on the Job Market Alumni Giving Opportunities ORIE Magazine Alumni Listing: PhD & MEng Alumni Spotlights Get Involved Recruit Students ORIE Advisory Council CFEM Advisory Council Resources ORIE Commencement Faculty Resources Academic Support Undergraduate Resources M.Eng. Resources Experience and Employment Mental Health Resources ORIE Events Open the search panel Menu Search Close Advanced analytics to help make better decisions Give to ORIE Faculty Openings News Cutting-Edge Research Meet Our World-Class Faculty Ph.D. Students on the Job Market The latest from ORIE News Leadership in Ukraine: A Spotlight on Cornell MFE '22 Ivan Kosyuk May 27, 2022 From the first day of the war in Ukraine, I searched for an opportunity to help my country. At first, I participated in a volunteer group of engineers to create useful software for the cause. Tech in... Read more about Leadership in Ukraine: A Spotlight on Cornell MFE '22 Ivan KosyukMore News Event Monday, June 20, 2022 12:00am Stochastic Networks Conference Cornell University, June 20-24, 2022, Ithaca, New York https://blogs.cornell.edu/snc2020/ Steering Committee: Francois Baccelli Sergey Foss (Co-Chair) Kavita Ramanan R. Srikant Ruth Williams (Co-Chair... Read more about Stochastic Networks Conference More Events Spotlight Making Bayesian optimization algorithms more efficient Raul Astudillo wants to help machines and people make better decisions. Toward that end, he studies Bayesian methods for efficient sequential decision-making for problems where there is a nested... Read more about Making Bayesian optimization algorithms more efficientMore Spotlights Undergraduate Program B.S. in Operations Research and Engineering Graduate Programs Master of Engineering (M.Eng.) in Ithaca Cornell Financial Engineering Manhattan Master of Engineering (M.Eng.) at Cornell Tech Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Ithaca Big Red Data Data scientists never really know where their work is going to take them. David Shmoys, the Laibe/Acheson Professor of Business Management and Leadership Studies at Cornell Engineering, has applied... Read more Project will strengthen global supply chains with AI A new grant will fund Cornell research into developing machine learning and blockchain tools to better understand and support the global supply chain, whose vulnerabilities were exposed by the COVID... Read more Mastering life on the track and in the classroom When Brittany Stenekes ’20 runs the hurdles, she is completely in the moment. “There isn’t time in a race to think, to plan, nor to strategize, yet every movement and every millisecond is important,”... Read more Andrew Daw Ph.D. '20 Andrew is a fifth-year Ph.D. student in the School of Operations Research and Information Engineering where he is advised by Jamol Pender. His research interests are in applied probability and... Read more Alberto Vera Ph.D. '20 What does being a Cornellian mean to you? That you are serious about your work and not afraid of the cold. Who inspired or influenced you during your time at Cornell? Chamsi (Hssaine) Woo-Hyung (Cho)... Read more Some Research Areas in ORIE COVID-19 Related Research Optimization Statistics and Machine Learning Applied Probability Networks Financial Engineering More Research Areas About Us Contact Us Directions and Maps Spotlights News Intranet Admissions: 607 255-4856 DEPT Address: 206 Rhodes Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-3801 Connect with us Facebook Twitter Youtube LinkedIn Copyright © 2022 Cornell University All rights reserved. Web Accessibility Assistance