Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington About UW & Seattle Resources Give Academic Experience Courses & Requirements Clinical Education Service Learning Faculty Residency Programs Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Research Pediatric Research Musculoskeletal Research Neurologic Research Aging Research Outcomes & Careers Careers Alumni Stories Job Postings Contact Us Menu About UW & Seattle Resources Give Academic Experience Courses & Requirements Clinical Education Service Learning Faculty Residency Programs Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Research Pediatric Research Musculoskeletal Research Neurologic Research Aging Research Outcomes & Careers Careers Alumni Stories Job Postings Contact Us Featured Story Slideshow Doctor of Physical Therapy Full Time / 3 Years / Seattle Photo taken in 2015 Doctor of Physical Therapy The Doctor of Physical Therapy program at the University of Washington offers an exceptional, well-rounded education for students who want to graduate as physical therapy generalists. At the UW, you’ll study in one of the top departments for rehabilitation services in the United States. Our DPT program is offered by the Division of Physical Therapy in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, the fourth leading department for rehabilitation care in the United States, according to U.S. News & World Report. The UW DPT program is accredited by the American Physical Therapy Association’s (APTA) Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education. A Rewarding Future The UW DPT program prepares you for the national physical therapy licensure exam and a rewarding career in physical therapy. 100% of our grads pass the exam. Learn about outcomes Interdisciplinary Classes Our program emphasizes collaborative practice. Take courses with students training in other health disciplines at the UW such as speech-language pathology and medicine. Explore Academic Experience Outstanding Faculty Our faculty are clinicians and researchers who are advancing the field of rehabilitation medicine in areas such as gait biomechanics and technology to treat paralysis. Meet the Faculty Diverse Clinical Experiences Our program offers access to more than 400 clinical sites for your internship experience, so you can delve into different physical therapy specialties and settings. Explore Clinical Education Make a Gift Help support our students and researchers. Give Now Important Dates June 15, 2022 Applications Open October 17, 2022 Application Deadline Early February 2023 Admission Offers Made September 28, 2023 Program Begins How to apply Info Sessions July 19, 2022, 4–5 p.m. Online October 6, 2022, 4–5 p.m. Online Connect with us Accredited by CAPTE The Doctor of Physical Therapy Program at the University of Washington is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE), 3030 Potomac Ave., Suite 100, Alexandria, Virginia 22305-3085; telephone: 703-706-3245; email: accreditation@apta.org; website: http://www.capteonline.org. If you need to contact the program/institution directly, please call 206-598-5333 or email dptprgm@uw.edu. “The UW Doctor of Physical Therapy program did an excellent job of preparing me for life in the clinic.” — Brandon Bailey Physical Therapist, University of Washington Medical Center University of Washington Be boundless Privacy Terms Brought to you by UW Continuum College © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA