Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Scholarships Palmetto Fellows The Palmetto Fellows program provides awards ranging from $6,700 to $10,000 per year based on an academic level and major. The application must be made through the student's high school to the South Carolina Commission on Higher Education (CHE). The awards may be renewed for a total of 4 years (8 semesters) provided that renewal requirements are met. See information regarding "enhancements" below. Frequently Asked Questions General Eligibility Requirements U.S. citizen or eligible non-citizen under state residency statutes. South Carolina resident at the time of high school graduation and during the period of the award. Graduated from a South Carolina high school or was a dependent of a parent or guardian who was a legal resident of South Carolina at the time of the student's high school graduation. Full-time undergraduate seeking a first baccalaureate degree. Must not have been judged delinquent, nor have been convicted or pled guilty or nolo contendere to any felony in any state. Must not have been convicted of any second alcohol or drug-related misdemeanor in any state for 12 months prior to the period of the award. Must not be in default or owe a refund or repayment on any federal or state financial aid. Initial Eligibility Requirements For the 2020-21 academic year and beyond, the South Carolina Commission on Higher Education (CHE) will begin accepting Palmetto Fellows applications for Early Awards around May 1st during students' junior year in high school and will continue accepting applications through April 15th of their senior year. Late Award applications can be submitted between May 15th and June 30th of the senior year. Students must meet the following three academic criteria in order to be eligible to apply: Score at least 1200 on the SAT (27 on the ACT). Test scores must be submitted to CHE by no later than the established deadline in December; Earn a cumulative 3.50 GPA on the Uniform Grading Scale at the end of the junior year; and Rank in the top six percent of the class at the end of either the sophomore or the junior year. OR Score at least 1400 on the SAT (32 on the ACT) through the June test administration of the senior year; and Earn a minimum 4.00 cumulative GPA on the SC Uniform Grading Scale at the end of the junior year, without regard to class rank. Renewal Eligibility Requirements Must earn a total of 30 credit hours each academic year. Any hours earned prior to high school graduation, hours exempted by examination and advanced placement credit do not count towards the 30-hour requirement. You must maintain a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA on all courses taken at Clemson. Courses taken at other institutions will not affect the grade point ratio requirement for Palmetto Fellows. If you do not meet the above criteria at the end of the spring semester, your Palmetto Fellows award will be withdrawn. If you make up the deficiency during the summer session, please notify us and the award will be reinstated. Coursework taken at other institutions and accepted for credit by Clemson University can be used to satisfy the 30-hour requirement. Terms of Eligibility Students may receive Palmetto Fellows for up to eight semesters of undergraduate study starting when they initially enroll in an accredited university. Students can opt to take a gap year between high school graduation and beginning college and still qualify for Palmetto Fellows under two conditions: First, no college coursework is taken during the gap year; and second, a reapplication for Palmetto Fellows is submitted to CHE. Award Amount The Palmetto Fellows award amount is determined annually by the South Carolina General Assembly. Currently, the maximum value is $6,700. Sophomore, junior and senior students may receive a maximum of $10,000 provided they are in a declared science or mathematics major, and other conditions are met.» More information Note: The Palmetto Fellows Scholarship in combination with all other scholarships and grants may not exceed the cost of attendance as defined by Title IV regulations. Disbursement The Palmetto Fellows Scholarship is credited to your student account to satisfy any charges. Excess aid is refunded to the student. The Palmetto Fellows Scholarship is typically available during the fall and spring semesters with the exception of co-op/internship students. Learn about the NEW summer disbursement program for the Palmetto Fellows Scholarship. Co-op/Internship Students If you participate in the Cooperative Education Program and/or certain sanctioned internship programs, you are not eligible to receive the Palmetto Fellows Scholarship during the term of participation. You may, however, elect to receive the Palmetto Fellows Scholarship in the succeeding summer term at Clemson if you take at least 12 credit hours during the summer. In order to be eligible for Palmetto Fellows over the summer, you must meet renewal requirements at the end of spring, meaning you have at least a 3.0 Clemson GPA and have earned at least 15 hours during the semester in which you enrolled in classes full-time. You may also elect to move the award that you would have received during your participation semester to the term immediately following your eighth normal semester (as long as you continue to meet all other eligibility requirements). If you elect to use the Palmetto Fellows award during the summer, you will only be expected to earn 27 hours (rather than 30) for that academic year for renewal purposes. If you co-op during a fall or spring semester and do not attend summer session, you are only required to earn 15 hours for that academic year. Dropping Below Full-Time or Withdrawing A student who is part-time in their final semester prior to graduation may receive a pro-rated Palmetto Fellows award. All other students who are part-time will not receive a disbursement unless approved for a reduced course load by the Student Accessibility Services Office. If you are receiving the Palmetto Fellows Scholarship, or any other financial aid, dropping below full-time status or withdrawing completely may affect your eligibility to receive aid. Under some circumstances, withdrawing from the University may require you to repay part, or all, of any financial aid, received. Before taking this action, you should contact the Student Financial Services Office (G-08 Sikes Hall) to determine the effect on your financial obligations. This information is subject to change by either the South Carolina General Assembly or the South Carolina Commission on Higher Education. You may view the most recent guidelines for the Palmetto Fellows program at S.C. Commission on Higher Education. Scholarships Home First Year Freshmen Scholarships Undergraduate Scholarships Diversity Scholarships Palmetto Fellows LIFE Scholarship Enhanced LIFE & PF Scholarships Private Scholarship Terms & Conditions Meet the Scholarship Staff FAQ Related Links Financial Aid Residency Classification Student Financial Services iROAR Accepted Students U.S. Veterans Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram