Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research Services We're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities, mathematics, music, physical sciences and social sciences collections Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major who wants to help! Teaching Support We have librarians who specializes in your subject area and can support your students’ learning. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Book Arts Workshop Letterpress Bookbinding Events Resources & Tutorials Book Arts Prize Contact Staff Today See All Hours Book Arts Workshop Open Studio Hours 3pm - 5pm. 5pm - 9pm See All Hours Discover the Book Arts Workshop, a vibrant and unique part of the Dartmouth campus offering students, faculty, and community members the opportunity to explore the arts of bookbinding, printing, and typography. About Learn about books with historical and contemporary mediums, including letterpress printing, digital design and hand-bookbinding. From creating sturdy journals or pop-up books, to printing images from low relief objects, students are encouraged to utilize the Workshop’s bindery, presses, and wide selection of metal and wood typefaces to bring life to their own projects. We offer faculty and curricular support as well. Find out more about our wide variety of classes and events occurring throughout the year at the Book Arts Workshop, take a tour of the studio, or stop by during our open studio hours. No previous experience is necessary, and all materials and equipment are provided. Join the Dartmouth Book Arts Listserv and get weekly reminders for when our Open Studio sessions, classes and special events are happening. Faculty & Curricular Support As a valued part of the Dartmouth experience, the Book Arts Workshop is available to faculty for curricular support, collaboration, and co-teaching. Over the years we’ve hosted classes from many departments; including English, Studio Art, Russian, Computer Science, and Environmental Studies, to tailor instruction around projects of varying length: from one session to the entire term. If you’d like to use the workshop for an upcoming class, please contact Sarah M. Smith who can assist you in designing the exercise, confirming schedules, and obtaining any necessary supplies. This set of questions will help with planning for your project. If a full class visit isn’t possible, we always welcome the use of the workshop by individual students to complete coursework during open studio hours. Scenes from the Book Arts Workshop A lot happens here! You can register and attend a free class on printing or bookbinding; attend a talk or workshop with a visiting designer or book artist; visit with a class from the curriculum or work on a project just for fun! Book Arts projects have included everything from posters and journals, to pop-up books, thank you cards, wallpaper, and coasters. Browse our gallery, and if you’ve got a Book Art’s project you’d like us to feature, email Sarah at sarah.m.smith@dartmouth.edu. Poster printing with seniors during Senior Week Printing letterpress posters with seniors during Senior Week Poster printing with seniors during Senior Week We love to get our 1850's iron hand press that's in the hall at Baker going! People stopping by can print their own poster, whether it's when we set up for Winter Carnival, Senior Week—or whenever we want to cause a scene and help folks have fun learning about printing! Tiny accordion books about cells "Cells: The Building Blocks of Life" by Summer Christensen '21 Tiny accordion books about cells This edition of tiny accordion books was letterpress printed and illustrated with hand-carved rubber stamps. Summer created these books as her final project for the English course, "History of the Book", taught by Alex Halasz. Animation class letterpress printing on film Printing on film with FILM: Handmade Cinema students Animation class letterpress printing on film Jodie Mack's students from the Film course, Handmade Cinema printed with metal type right onto the film using one of our platen presses and special ink. The footage was part of a film that was shown in the HOP at then end of the term. Concertina bound book by photo student "seeing Skin" by Faith Rotich '18 for Studio Art Senior Seminar Concertina bound book by photo student Faith's concertina bound photo book, "Seeing Skin" was selected to be included in the "Unbound" annual book arts exhibit at Artistree in Pomfret, VT in 2018. Tunnel book making workshop Students making their own tunnel books in a free workshop Tunnel book making workshop We offer a number of free workshops throughout the term on different bookbinding structures and printing techniques. These students created 3D layered diorama-like scenes called tunnel books. Stop in to one of our Open Studio sessions to check out some cool book models and maybe even schedule a workshop for your friends! Letterpress printed posters for Latinx Art & Activism course Letterpress posters from Latinx Art and Activism course taught by Tatiana Reinoza Letterpress printed posters for Latinx Art & Activism course The Latinx Art and Activism students printed posters using wood and metal type. Some of the posters also incorporated polymer relief plates made from imagery by José Guadalupe Posada. The students also were visited by Clementé Orozco during his visit with the Book Arts Workshop. Hand-bound book with drawing carved into pages "Depth" by Kyle Carlos '21 Hand-bound book with drawing carved into pages This hard cover, drum leaf structure book was hand-made and then carved into by Kyle Carlos '21 for a Studio Art drawing class final project. Printer Amos Kennedy printing and talking with First Year Seminar Film class. Printer Amos Kennedy visited and collaborated with us for a week Printer Amos Kennedy printing and talking with First Year Seminar Film class. We've been lucky to have Amos Kennedy visit us twice! With assistance from an Experiential Learning Course Grant from DCAL, Amos came to work with a First Year Seminar course in the FILM department, taught by Michael Evans. While he was here Amos printed with other classes such as: Music's Sounds Art Practice, taught by Ash Fure; Government's Ethics and Public Policy, taught by Julie Rose; and English's Electronic Literature, taught by Aden Evens. We printed SO many posters and had a great time hearing about Amos' experiences. Book Arts Events No book arts events at this time. Directions The Book Arts Workshop Studios are located in Baker Library, Rooms 21-25 (west entrance, lower level, around the corner from the Orozco murals). The Bindery Studio is in Baker Room 21 and the Letterpress Studio is in Baker Room 23. Room 25 (also known as the "Ampersand Room") is a resource room with books on books, computer, printers and a door to the Book Arts Workshop Program Manager's office. You'll find a Baker Ground Level link on our Floor Guides page. Email & Phone Baker-Berry Library sarah.m.smith@dartmouth.edu 603-646-8817 Address Baker-Berry Library Rooms 21-25 Baker-Berry Library Hanover, NH 03755 Zoom: Book Arts Our Staff Won K. Chung Book Arts Workshop Letterpress Instructor Jamie S. Dalton Preservation and Project Management Assistant Book Arts Assistant Deborah Howe Collections Conservator Lizzie A. Curran Assistant Conservator Robert A. Metzler Book Arts Workshop Instructor Sarah M. Smith Book Arts Workshop Program Manager All Book Arts Workshop Staff Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy