Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open accessibility options and information panel Accessibility Options: Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Switch to High Contrast See Global University Search and Navigation Visit University Homepage University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search Miami.edu Search Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Miami.edu Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Return to Homepage Open the Main Menu Search Search Undergraduate Degrees, Majors and Minors Undergraduate Curriculum Academic Experience Student Experience Career and Professional Development How to Apply Visit Us Contact Us Graduate Find and Compare Programs MBA Specialized Masters STEM Programs Online Programs Doctoral Programs Financing Your Degree Graduate Experience Career & Networking How to Apply Contact Us Executive Education Online Spanish & Portuguese Programs Our Approach Fast Immersion Modules Partnerships Results Certificates & Boot Camps Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty Directory Academic Departments Academic Seminars Business Conferences Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes News Events Miami Herbert Lecture Series The Herbert Huddle Podcast Upcoming Events About About What We Stand For At A Glance Meet The Dean Life At Miami Herbert Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Student Network Student Network Graduate Career & Networking Alumni Network and Mentorship Recruiters, Employers, and Industries Recruiters and Companies Partner with Us Undergraduate Graduate Capstone Projects Talent Development Corporate Associates Program Alumni Alumni Alumni Give Back Alumni News Get Involved Mentor a student Info For Current Students International Students Working Professionals Faculty & Staff Recruiters and Companies Apply Request Info Visit Faculty and Staff Resources Find information here on IT Support Services, computer labs, faculty and staff directories, logo downloads, and other important information for Miami Herbert faculty and staff. Home Faculty and Staff Resources These links provide direct access to academic, technical, and safe reporting resources. Below, you will find links to commonly used pages on the Miami Herbert website, University website, and external resources. Quick Links AV Support Form Email Room Reservations Miami Herbert Visual Identity Guide Pay Event Invoice Reserve Computer Lab 204/209 Reserve Jenkins 317B (Green Room) The Official Logo of Miami Herbert University Calendar of Events Update Faculty Profile School Council What We Do The School Council of the Miami Herbert Business School functions in accordance with Section A5.1 of the Faculty Manual: The faculty of each school shall establish a Council as its executive agency. The voting members of the faculty of each school shall elect from their members a Council which shall have the following duties and responsibilities: it shall act as the committee on academic planning, educational and research policy, and general welfare of the school; it shall elect all committees of the school faculty; it shall act as confidential counsel to the dean of the school in any matter submitted by the dean; it or its designee shall set the date and hour, and prepare the agenda for all regular meetings of the school faculty; it shall include in the agenda any matter requested in writing by five percent of the voting faculty members of the school faculty; a majority of the voting faculty of a department; or any items or matters submitted by the dean or his/her principal deputy; it may make recommendations to the school faculty concerning proposed actions; it may act for the school faculty, as authorized annually by the school faculty, and report such actions at the next meeting of the school faculty. The authority of the Council to elect committees of the school faculty in no way limits the authority of the dean to appoint ad hoc committees from the school faculty to advise the dean. The School Council is authorized to approve additions, deletions, and modifications of existing curricula. New degree programs and deletions of existing programs are reviewed by the SCHOOL COUNCIL, with recommendations made to the voting faculty. The School Council may designate a subcommittee to advise it on curricular issues. School Bylaws Business School Policies School Policy on Teaching Responsibilities of Regular Faculty (PDF) School Policy on Faculty Feedback (PDF) Members Raphael Boleslavsky Economics Shirley Dennis-Escoffier Accounting Vice Speaker of the Council Howard Gitlow Professor, Management Science Uzma Khan Marketing George Korniotis Finance Vice Speaker of the Council John Mezias Management Speaker of the Council Sara Rushinek Business Technology Steve Ullmann Health Management and Policy Blanca Ripoll Executive Director of Events Management, Building Operations, and Special Projects Secretary to the Council John A. Quelch Vice Provost, University of Miami, Dean, Miami Herbert Business School and Leonard M. Miller University Professor Ex Officio Member General Resources Calendars Canes Calendar Miami Herbert Computer Lab 204 Calendar Miami Herbert Teaching Lab 209 Calendar Jenkins 317B (Green Room) Calendar Forms and Policies Miami Herbert Policies, Guidelines, or Practices Business Expense Checklist Student Employment and Compensation Policy UM Policies, Guidelines, or Practices Procurement Requisition & Reimbursements Human Resources and University Resources Calendars and Schedules Payroll- Important Schedules Tax Documentation University Resources Workday Pets on Campus University Declared Emergency, Employee Responsibilities, and Compensation Moving Allowance Sick Time Nepotism/Consensual Relationships University Gifts & Discounts to Employees Sexual Misconduct Policy Computer Access and Confidentiality Website and Digital Media Faculty Profile Faculty Profile Pages Faculty profiles are hosted on the University People site. Contact profile managers Marlen Lebish (mlebish@miami.edu) May Peralta (mperalta@miami.edu) Submit your request here: https://herbert.miami.edu/webprofile Remember: Basic information such as honorifics, first and last name, e-mail, phone, office location, etc are editable directly in Workday. For office location, reach out to Gabrielle Chudnoff (gabriellechudnoff@miami.edu). You do not need to work with a People Profile manager unless you have questions about additional information that can be displayed on a profile page. Website Submit website content change requests here: https://herbert.miami.edu/webedits Social Media Submit social media content requests here: https://herbert.miami.edu/socialposts Herbert News Submit news story requests here: https://herbert.miami.edu/newsposts Miami Herbert Logo The Miami Herbert Business School logo is available below to download for use on official materials for the School. A cohesive and consistently applied graphic identity is an important tool that helps reinforce the School’s message and presence and thereby serves to advance the School and University. To maximize the benefits of a visual identity system, the logo must be used in a consistent fashion. The University Visual Identity Manual provides specific guidelines and standards for the system in all forms of University communication. Adherence to these guidelines is vital for the University to be represented in a uniform and consistent fashion. The University's Visual Identity Guide can be found here. Miami Herbert has its own Visual Identity Guide, which can be downloaded here. Logos are available for download in color, grayscale and black and white in two formats – EPS and JPG. Some logo file formats may require specific graphic software (such as Adobe PhotoShop or Illustrator) to open or view files. Most vendors or graphics professionals should be familiar with these standard formats, as well as which file best suits a specific usage. JPEG is a standard cross-platform (Mac or PC) format that can be used for a variety of applications. Please note that the JPEG files cannot be significantly enlarged beyond the original signature size contained within the original files. EPS files are a standard format for graphics professionals and those more familiar with publishing. This format allows for quality usage at any size enlargement. Download Miami Herbert Logo E-mail Blasts Contact Victoria Wellons (vwellons@mbs.miami.edu) IT and AV Support The IT ServiceDesk is available on weekdays from 7:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. and weekends from 7:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. For assistance, please contact the Miami Herbert Business School Service Desk at 305-284-1771 8x1771 or email servicedesk@mbs.miami.edu. Service Desk For assistance, please contact the Miami Herbert Business School ServiceDesk at: 305-284-1771 / 8x1771 servicedesk@mbs.miami.edu Website: https://herbert.miami.edu/kb Hours of Operation Weekdays: 7:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. Weekends: 7:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. University of Miami Information Technology 305-284-6565 / 8x6565 help@miami.edu Website: https://it.miami.edu/help-and-support/index.html The ServiceDesk is your stop for all your computer questions/requests. We are well prepared and equipped to answer service calls in many areas, including: Installing software Troubleshooting driver issues Installing new hardware Troubleshooting software or hardware failure Replacing defective parts Computer buying advice Computer operating system installations/upgrades Computer Hardware and Software The Miami Herbert Business School's IT Support group provides a variety of software and hardware support. Please try to familiarize with the options you may have regarding software and hardware such as: Computer Procurement Supported Software Purchase Requests Software Licenses Click here to view software provided by the University of Miami Click here to view computer systems recommended by UMIT To learn more about IT services, guides, and policies, check the IT Knowledge Base website at https://herbert.miamie.du/kb. Lab Services The Miami Herbert Business School has more than 100 lab workstations available for student use. There are four designated labs: Teaching Lab located in Stubblefield 204. Undergraduate Lab located in Stubblefield 209. Graduate Lab located on the 4th floor of the Aresty Graduate Building The Information Resource Lab also located on the 4th floor of the Aresty Graduate Building. Graduate students are able to log into all labs while Undergraduate students can only log into the Undergraduate Lab and the Information Resource Center. Before any new academic year begins, the machines are re-imaged and software is installed as requested by faculty. There is always a deadline associated with the lab work to ensure proper testing. We ask that you please submit your requests via email to servicedesk@mbs.miami.edu. Lab Hours Monday - Thursday 9:00 AM - 11:00 PM Friday 9:00 AM - 7:00 PM Saturday 12:00 PM - 5:00 PM Sunday 12:00 PM - 5:00 PM AV Support Welcome to the Miami Herbert Business School AV support form. To ensure support, please fill out the request a minimum of 1 week in advance of the event time. Some event support coordination may require further advanced notification to ensure proper support. If you have not done so already, please contact the Events Department at 305-284-2362 to secure a venue at Miami Herbert & request a walkthrough prior to filling out this request form. Submit Request Here Venue Equipment Storer Auditorium - Podium Computer, Podium Microphone, Internet access, HDMI & VGA inputs, PA system, Any combination of 4 wireless handheld or lapel microphones, 3 wired stage microphones, SiriusXM Radio music, clicker, and projection. EEC Dining Room - 2 Projection systems with HDMI/VGA inputs, computer with internet access, Sirius Radio music, clicker, any combination of 4 wireless handheld or lapel microphones and a PA System. De la Cruz Student Study Center - Podium computer with internet access and a projection system with HDMI/VGA inputs. Faculty Lounge - Computer with internet access and display LCD system. Dean's Conference Room - Computer with internet access & VGA input and a display LCD system. SB & AGB Classrooms - Projection system with a podium computer that provides internet access. AGB Conference Rooms - Display system with a podium computer that provides internet access. Additional Equipment* * Rental fees may apply 1 Portable Speaker for Outdoor Events 2 Classroom Lapel Microphone 2 sets ADA Compliance Hearing Assistive Devices (SB 208 & AGB 530) 2 Overhead Projector 1 Document Camera Network Support Our network team provides core network services to all faculty and staff members. Our technical support staff is available with support for each service listed below through our Service Desk along with direct contact to the systems administrator group. We encourage you to become familiar with our core services listed below. Core Services Email configuration and setup Webmail access Secure cloud based storage Remote Backup VPN access setup and configuration Box Office365 Google Drive Email Configuration and Set Up Email is available to all faculty and staff members of the Miami Herbert Business School which will provide users with messaging and calendar functionality. In addition, e-mail addresses can be created for programs or departments (For example, mba@mbs.miami.edu). If you have any questions on obtaining an email account please contact the Miami Herbert Business School Service Desk at 305-284-1771. Details: E-mail Client Access: Microsoft Outlook, Apple Mail Integrated Calendar Sharing: Yes Access to Global Address List: Yes File Send/Receive Limit: 30 MB Mailbox Size: unlimited for faculty Available on Terminal Server: Yes Available from Mobile Device: Yes Web Access: Yes IMAP/POP: Not Available WebMail Access Outlook Web Access (OWA) is available through the following secure logon page: URL: https://email.miami.edu Supported on all modern browsers. Outlook Web Access provides access to your Exchange email messages, calendar and contact information by using a Web browser. VPN Access and Configuration The VPN serves as a gateway into the University of Miami from the internet at large. Through use of the VPN members of the Miami Herbert Business School can access their Network Drives and their Exchange Email from home. VPN users can also remote desktop directly to their own computer. In order to have real time access to your email and other network resources from home, you must connect to the Miami Herbert Business School SSL VPN connection by clicking on the following link: https://remote.miami.edu/ Once you have entered the web address you will be prompt to log in you must use the same login credentials that you use to log into your workstation. For questions about obtaining an account or step by step guides on how to use the business school VPN contact the Miami Herbert Business School Service Desk at servicedesk@mbs.miami.edu 305-284-1771. Room Reservations Our network team provides core network services to all faculty and staff members. Our technical support staff is available with support for each service listed below through our Service Desk along with direct contact to the systems administrator group. We encourage you to become familiar with our core services listed below. Covid-19 Notice Due to COVID-19, updates about room reservations are currently on hold. The following information is subject to change without notice according to the University’s guidelines and requirements. Please reach out to Blanca Ripoll at 305-284-5206 or bripoll@bus.miami.edu for further information. Request a Space You will receive an email from the MBS Events and Reservations team confirming your event. Please wait until you receive a confirmation to advertise your event. Contact information for general questions Phone: 305-284-2362 Email: mbsclassroomrequests@mbs.miami.edu AV Support Web Form: https://www.bus.miami.edu/forms/it/av-event-support.html Submit a Reservation Request Capacities and Costs Locations at the Miami Herbert Business School provide flexible meeting and event space, providing the perfect place for your next conference, event or meeting. All venues are located at the Miami Herbert Business School alongside the beautiful view of the canal. Download Capacities and Costs School Technology and AV To ensure support, you will need to fill out the request form with a minimum of 1 week in advance of event date. Some event support coordination may require further advanced notification to ensure proper support. Web Form: https://www.bus.miami.edu/forms/it/av-event-support.html VENUE EQUIPMENT Storer Auditorium - Podium Computer, Podium Microphone, Internet access, HDMI & VGA inputs, PA system, Any combination of 4 wireless handheld or lapel microphones, 3 wired stage microphones, SiriusXM Radio music, clicker, and projection. EEC Dining Room - 2 Projection systems with HDMI/VGA inputs, computer with internet access, Sirius Radio music, clicker, any combination of 4 wireless handheld or lapel microphones and a PA System. Faculty Lounge - Computer with internet access and display LCD system. SB & AGB Classrooms - Projection system with a podium computer that provides internet access. AGB Conference Rooms - Display system with a podium computer that provides internet access. ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT* * Rental fees may apply 1 Portable Speaker for Outdoor Events 2 Classroom Lapel Microphone 2 sets ADA Compliant Hearing Assistive Devices (SB 208 & AGB 530) 2 Overhead Projector 1 Document Camera We strongly recommend that any technical setups/presentations are tested ahead of time during the walkthrough of the venue to ensure there are no last minute concerns. Walkthrough requests will be coordinated pending availability. Please contact the Events Department directly at 305-284-2362, and schedule the venue walkthrough between Monday – Friday, 8:30am – 5pm. Preferred Caterers We are proud to offer this select list of outstanding preferred caterers. Our preferred caterers have an established relationship with the Miami Herbert Business School and are familiar with the facilities and our policies and procedures. Please be aware that these groups are not directly affiliated with the Miami Herbert Business School and must be contacted individually for your event. Michael’s Catering Contact Person: Robyn Bruck 305-342-3100 729 NE 71 Street Miami, FL 33138 robynbruck@bellsouth.net Creative Tastes Contact Person: Frank 305-256-8399 12229 SW 131 Avenue Miami, FL 33186 frank@creativetastes.com Chartwells Contact Person: Wendy 305-284-2717 1350 Miller Drive, Room 132 Coral Gables, FL 33124 chartwells@miami.edu Catering by Les Contact Person: Les 305-669-5221 7049 SW 47 Street Miami, FL 33155 For more APPROVED vendors by the University of Miami please contact the purchasing department 305-284-5751. You may use a caterer that is not on our preferred list. MBS must receive a certificate of insurance (COI) from the caterer at least two weeks in advance of the event date. If alcohol is being served, a liquor license must also be provided and the COI must include liquor liability coverage. We recommend a walk-through be scheduled approximately one month prior to the event date. Event Essentials A lot of work goes into planning a successful event, and providing the correct forms is an essential part of this success. Please reference the links below to get a better understanding of University policies as well as parking restrictions. Certificate of Liability Insurance Parking & Valet Smoking Free Campus Pay Invoice Questions about billing or payment should be directed to the reservation office at mbsclassroomrequests@mbs.edu or 305-284-2362. Refund Policy You have 14 days prior to the event date to cancel the reservation without incurring any cancellation fees. After this grace period, you will be subject to pay 50% of the total cost. Privacy Policy: Read Here - https://welcome.miami.edu/privacy-and-legal/privacy/index.html Pay Event Invoice Event FAQs Does Miami Herbert have a kitchen? Yes, and it includes a conventional oven. However, the use of the kitchen must be pre-approved as other events may be using it. Can I bring in my own food or am I required to use a caterer? You may bring in your own foods or have prepared food delivered to your event. Miami Herbert does not require a COI for restaurants or services delivering prepared food, as long as it is delivery only (e.g. no food service is involved). Clean up and extra trash bins are required for any event involving food. Can I serve alcohol at my event? Alcohol may be served as long as a COI, a liquor license, and a licensed bar tender is provided a minimum of two weeks in advance of the event date. Undergraduate student organizations may not include alcohol at their events, regardless of the ages of the participants. Graduate Law and Medical school student organizations must be granted approval in advance from the Vice President of Student Affairs or their assigned designee. How early in the day can I start the setup for my event? All event reservations require same-day load-in and load-out, according to the operating hours for the building for the date of the event. Since Miami Herbert has a flat-rate pricing structure, setup and clean-up times are included in the reservation fee. Events requiring a significant amount of setup may need to reserve the day prior to the event date in order to ensure sufficient time. Standard rates apply for additional setup days. Events requiring only a few extra setup or clean-up hours outside of the building’s operating hours may request an early open or late close. Requests must be made two weeks in advance and approved by MBS Operations, in order to allow for staffing. The current rate for this service is $125.00 per event. What are Miami Herbert’s operating hours? Normal staff operating hours are Monday – Friday 8:30 AM – 6:00 PM. Miami Herbert is closed on most University holidays - https://registrar.miami.edu/dates-and-deadlines/academic-calendars/index.html Are any discounts available? Non-profits, Alumni, Faculty, and Staff receive a 10% discount for events. What equipment is included in my reservation? The venue space already comes with seating space, any additional equipment requirements need to be leased through an approved caterer. Can I connect my computer to the projection equipment? Yes, if your device has a HDMI or VGA port. If not, please be sure to bring the appropriate adapter for your device. Can I bring in rented furniture or equipment? Yes, as long as there is notice given at least two weeks in advance in order to make accommodations for the existing furniture. If movers are required, there will be a service fee involved. The vendor must also provide a COI at least two weeks in advance of the event date in order to allow time for it to be review and approved by the Office of Risk Management. Can I hire an external production company or DJ for my event? Yes, you can hire and external production company, as long as the vendor provides a COI at least two weeks in advance of the event date. The vendor should also contact our MBS AV/IT department and schedule a technical walk-through of the event in order to familiarize himself or herself with the facility. Our AV/IT department can provide contact information for a number of production companies that have worked extensively with Miami Herbert, should you want a referral. Please note that DJs are NOT allowed, as we frequently have classes in session on weeknights and weekends. What are the parking options? Visitors to the University of Miami Coral Gables Campus must pay for parking during the hours of 8:00 am until 11:00 pm daily. The University of Miami uses PayByPhone, an easy and convenient way to pay for parking using your smartphone. Paying in advance assures that parking is available and convenient for your guests. The parking fee in the visitor garage is currently $8 per day or $1.50 per hour, Monday-Friday 8:00 am-11:00 pm. The various colored parking lots on campus require parking permits until 11:00 pm daily. Valet parking arrangements can be made in advance with the Parking and Transportation Office. Depending on the time of day and day of the week, the valet fee may either be prepaid by the event sponsor or self-paid by the guest at the time of service. Events with guests paying the valet directly will be required to provide a minimum number of vehicle guarantee by the event sponsor. Refer to the valet webpage for additional pricing information. Can I decorate the room for my event? Yes, absolutely! Please note that all decorations must be ground-supported or table-top (e.g. no taping or nailing is permitted to walls, glass or ceiling). The following items are prohibited for various reasons: Fog/smoke machines Glitter Confetti Small candles are allowed, if enclosed, and sterno cans may be used under food service trays. Can my guests go outside to take a smoke break? Smoking is prohibited on the Coral Gables campus. If an individual decides to violate these policies, the individual in violation of the policy may be subject to appropriate disciplinary actions as defined by University policy. Return to Homepage Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, Florida 33146 USA Undergraduate MBA & Specialized Masters Doctoral Executive Education Corporate Associates Program News Upcoming Events Lecture Series Business Conferences Media Contact Give Back Current Students Accessibility Contact Us Connect Visit Instagram Visit Facebook Visit LinkedIn Visit Twitter Visit YouTube © 2021 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback