Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Financing & Support Internal Funding & Appointments Research Travel Graduate School Skip to Navigation Research Travel Doctoral Research Travel Grant Adam Lanman and more than 200 other PhD students received summer travel funds. He went to Australia to help construct a radio telescope array used for astrophysical and cosmological research. Graduate students traveling for scholarly research, either within the US or internationally, can apply to the Graduate School for up to $1000 to cover travel and related expenses. Given funding limitations, an application does not guarantee support. Some programs have independent funds to support such travel; students should check with their Director of Graduate Studies (DGS) for more information. *Please note that in an effort to more equitably meet the current travel funding needs of graduate students, the Doctoral Research Travel Grant for Summer 2022 and Fall 2022 (and possibly into the future) will not be a matching award and no longer requires that students receive funding from outside sources to be eligible to apply. All applications and associated documentation must be submitted online through UFunds. Please email [email protected] with any questions. Award Eligibility: Doctoral students in years 1 - 6 or on a COVID Appointment Extension Students are eligible to apply for doctoral research travel funding if they are active doctoral students in years 1-6 or doctoral students on a COVID Appointment Extension during the entire duration of the travel associated with the award. Students currently on leave are not eligible. Master’s students are not eligible. Students enrolled in degree programs in the Division of Biology and Medicine are not eligible; please see the BioMed Travel Awards. Traveling for research The Doctoral Research Travel Grant is available for both domestic and international research travel. Students must provide a one-page summary of proposed research activities. Provide a copy of your Graduate Student Digital CV (GSDCV) Students must provide a current copy of their Graduate Student Digital CV. More information about the GSDCV can be found on the Graduate School’s GSDCV page. One successful Doctoral Research Travel Grant per academic year Students can receive one Doctoral Research Travel Grant per academic year (June 1 through May 31) as determined by the end date of travel. Apply at least 14 days before the start of your travel Applications must be submitted through UFunds at least 14 days before the start of travel. Students not able to make this deadline should email [email protected] to see if an exception can be made. This requirement allows the Graduate School time to process applications and notify students whether they will receive funding or not prior to the start of travel. Provide an approved Safety Plan, if applicable All students are required to register their travel plans in TravelSafe (for both domestic and international travel). In addition, some international travel destinations require completion of a Safety Plan in TravelSafe and approval from the Global Travel Risk Assessment Committee (GTRAC). Check Brown’s current travel guidelines and requirements on the International Travel Risk Management webpage or the Travel Policies webpage to determine if GTRAC approval is required for travel to your intended destination. Using your Doctoral Research Travel Grant The Doctoral Research Travel Grant is processed as a reimbursement through a student’s home department. Prepaid expenses such as airfare and prepaid hotel rooms can be submitted for reimbursement prior to travel. Expenses that are not paid for in advance, as well as per diem meals, can be submitted once the student returns from travel. All documentation should be submitted to a student’s home department for processing within 30 days of the completion of travel. Please refer to the Graduate Travel Fund Reimbursement Guidelines for details about the reimbursement process and what documentation to submit. Other Research Opportunities Graduate School Travel Funding Summary Joukowsky Summer Research Award Conference Travel Fund International Travel Fund Graduate Student Council Conference and External Travel Funding Global Mobility Research Fellowship Student Research Grants in Judaic Studies Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Tuition & Fees Health and Dental Insurance Financial Considerations Master's Funding Ph.D. Funding Internal Funding & Appointments Student Loans Student Employment Student Payroll Procedures Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items UFUNDS Online Application Graduate Travel Fund Reimbursement Guidelines Joukowsky Summer Research Award Research at Brown International Travel Fund Office of Sponsored Projects International Travel Information Harvard Travellers Club Fund (external) Global Mobility Research Fellowship Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants