Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Political Science Degrees Forward Arrow Degrees Political Science, B.A. / B.S. / Minor Policy Studies, Ph.D. Master of Public Administration Certificate Programs Pre-Law Back Arrow Back Students Opportunities Forward Arrow Students Opportunities Academic Advising Internships and Undergraduate Research Clubs and Competitions Study Abroad Back Arrow Back Research Alumni & Friends Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Political Science Degrees show submenu for Degrees Political Science, B.A. / B.S. / Minor Policy Studies, Ph.D. Master of Public Administration Certificate Programs Pre-Law Students Opportunities show submenu for Students Opportunities Academic Advising Internships and Undergraduate Research Clubs and Competitions Study Abroad Research Alumni & Friends Clemson Home College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Academics Political Science Students Opportunities Current: Clubs and Competitions Clubs and Competitions South Carolina Student Legislature The South Carolina Student Legislature is a student-led simulation of the South Carolina General Assembly. Colleges and universities across the state send delegations to plenary sessions in the fall and spring. Members of the delegation research and draft new legislation, develop strategies to win enactment of legislation, learn and apply parliamentary procedures and participate in the governing structure of the statewide organization. Who may join the South Carolina Student Legislature (SCSL)? Any undergraduate student may become a member of the class (POSC 3120) and the SCSL organization. There are no course prerequisites. Students must demonstrate a commitment to attend and participate in class meetings, complete required out-of-class assignments and contribute to class simulations. May I earn course credits for participating in SCSL? Yes. POSC 3120 is a one-credit course. It is possible to earn a total of six credit hours from POSC 312. The three credit hours of SCSL are equivalent to one regular political science course and may be applied toward the political science major (please refer to Clemson’s Undergraduate Announcements catalog for specific regulations on using SCSL credits toward the political science degree). Do I have to be a declared political science major or minor to join SCSL? No. You may be a major in any program offered on campus. Do I need to meet a minimum grade point ratio to participate in SCSL? No minimum GPR is required. How often are the meetings? Weekly classes are scheduled during each semester, meeting once a week for one hour. Would certain course work be helpful before joining SCSL? Yes. While not required, SCSL members tend to benefit from taking American National Government (POSC 1010), State and Local Government (POSC 3020) and Constitutional Law (POSC 4370 and 4380). Communication courses (such as COMM 2500) and introductory courses in economics and history are also helpful. It is also helpful to keep up with current state events and national affairs on your own by reading appropriate newspapers and newsmagazines. What about the state plenary sessions? Clemson’s SCSL usually sends a delegation to the state plenary sessions in Columbia in the fall and in Myrtle Beach in the spring. Every class member is encouraged to attend; however, in cases when the number of students we can send is limited, delegates are chosen on the basis of interest and work in and outside of the classroom. Since attendance at the plenary sessions involves missing classes, each participant is required to clear anticipated absences with course instructors. Do I have to attend the state plenary sessions in the spring and fall semesters? No, but it is strongly encouraged. Should I expect expenses at the conferences? Yes. Our budget does not cover out-of-pocket expenses. Generally, each delegate is guaranteed delegate fees and hotel costs while accepting responsibility for travel and meals. How early should I get involved? Since experience is the best teacher, you should become involved as early in your college career as possible. Many students remain active in SCSL for four years. Who is the SCSL faculty advisor? Students interested in participating in SCSL should contact Michael Cunningham. Clemson Model UN Clemson University students from a variety of majors participate in inter-collegiate competitions in the U.S. and abroad simulating the proceedings of the United Nations as well as international crises. Clemson Model UN delegations have won successive domestic and international awards going back to 1989. Students can choose to either enroll in a special political science course (POSC 3110) to provide one credit hour for participation in the program or join a student organization to participate. Aside from regular competitions and activities, members organize and run a Model UN competition for high schools (CUMUNC). Student contact: Sydnee Abel, sabel@g.clemson.edu Student contact: Callahan Moore, callahm@g.clemson.edu Faculty Advisor: Xiaobo Hu, Ph.D., xhu@clemson.edu, Department of Political Science, Brackett Hall 231-B Who can join the Model UN? Any undergraduate student can become a member of the class (POSC 3110-001) and organization. There are no course prerequisites. Students only need to demonstrate a willingness to attend and actively participate in class meetings, complete the required out of class assignments and contribute to class simulations. Can I earn course credits for participating in Model UN? Yes. POSC 3110-001 is one credit hour. It is possible to earn a total of six credit hours with POSC 3110. Three of the credit hours from Model UN are equivalent to one regular political science course and may be applied toward the political science major (please refer to Clemson’s Undergraduate Announcements catalog for specific regulations in using Model UN credits toward the political science degree). Do I have to be a declared political science major or minor in order to join Model UN? No. Typically, one third to one half of those students participating in the program are neither. You can be a major in any program offered on this campus. Do I need a minimal grade point average to participate in Model UN? None is required. How often are there Model UN Meetings? Weekly classes are scheduled at 4-5:15 p.m. on Mondays. There will likely be occasional meetings in addition to the regular classes to help prepare for participation in regional and national conferences. Would certain coursework be helpful? Yes. While not required, Model UN members tend to benefit from taking comparative and international politics courses (POSC 1020, 1040, 3610, and 3620 in particular) communication studies courses (COMM 2500) and the introductory level courses in economics and history. Such courses tend to provide writing and speaking skills that are very useful. It is also helpful to keep up with current international affairs on your own by reading the coverage provided in national newspapers and newsmagazines. Do I have to attend conferences? No, but it is strongly encouraged. However, if you desire to be a conference delegate, preparation and a successful interview during a selection process conducted by the elected students in the program are required. What about the conferences? Model UN participates in a variety of conferences regarding simulations about United Nations committees as well as international relations. The organization usually sends a delegation to at least two or three conferences each semester to represent a particular country’s government. Delegates are chosen on the basis of interest and their work demonstrated in and out of the classroom. Since conferences involve missing classes, each participant is required to clear anticipated absences with course instructors. Should I expect expenses at conferences? Yes. The budget does not cover out-of-pocket expenses. Generally, each delegate is guaranteed delegate fees, transportation and hotel costs while accepting responsibility for meals. What types of awards has Clemson’s Model UN team won at major conferences? Clemson’s Model UN team has won major national and international awards in inter-university competitions. For example, it earned the Best Delegate award at the University of Stockholm’s Model UN conference in 2008 and at the Duke University International Security conference in 2009. How early should I get involved? Since experience is the best teacher, you should be involved as early in your college career as possible. Many students stay with Model UN throughout all of their undergraduate years. Who is the Model UN faculty advisor? Students interested in participating in Model UN should contact Xiaobo Hu, Ph.D. (xhu@clemson.edu). His office is located in Brackett 230B, and his phone number is (864) 656-1452. Clemson International Relations Association CIRA is a student organization housed in the political science department for promoting and carrying out international relations activities across campus. Activities include organizing roundtables and talks on current international affairs topics and coordinating with other internationally oriented student groups on campus. Student president: Caitlin Seluzicki, cseluzi@g.clemson.edu Faculty Advisor: Dr. Xiaobo Hu, xhu@clemson.edu Department of Political Science, Brackett Hall 231-B William T. Howell Pre-Law Society The mission of The William T. Howell Pre-Law Society is to further educate Clemson Students about the process of applying to law school, the degree of dedication that law school entails, how to pay for law school, and the benefits of a Juris Doctorate degree. Furthermore, the William T. Howell Pre-Law Society is committed to creating and sustaining a unique environment promoting interaction between prospective law students and fostering prosperous relationships. Find Us On Facebook Find Us In LinkedIn Pre-Law in Political Science Lyceum Scholars and Fellows Programs Department of Political Science Copyright © Clemson University Department of Political Science | 232 Brackett Hall (864) 656-0690 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson