retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs MENU Header Menu Texas Union Hours WCP (formerly SAC) Hours Events Calendar Employment Search Search Texas Union Texas Union 360° Virtual Tour William C. Powers, Jr. Student Activity Center WCP Student Activity Center 360° Virtual Tour History & Sustainability Through Our Eyes Hogg Auditorium Food & Fun Food Truck Schedule Texas Union Underground Tower Tours Events + Entertainment About Us Committees Services Your Event Advertising - DigiKnow Pricing & Policies Locations & Reservations Food & Catering About Us Board of Directors Employment Support Our Students University Unions 360° Virtual Tours Breadcrumb Home Food & Fun Tower Tours Tower Tours Food & Fun Food Truck Schedule Texas Union Underground Tower Tours UT Tower 360° Virtual Tour Join us on a UT Tower Tour! Tower Tours are canceled until further notice. Please refer to our official schedule and select a day and time that works for you To make a reservation for 10 or less people, please call (512) 475-6636 during Texas Union Hospitality Desk Hours Regular Spring Hospitality Desk Hours (holiday hours may vary & spring break hours) Mon-Fri: 7am-1am (Available 18 hours!) Sat: 10am-1am Sun: 12pm-1am To make a reservation for 11 or more, please email towertours@universityunions.utexas.edu NOTE: Because the Tower is a normally functioning office building during the week, we are unable to conduct tours outside of the posted days and times (without exception). Tower Tours Schedule Tours have been canceled until further notice. When in session all regular tours are Saturdays and Sundays ONLY and start at the beginning of each hour. Tower Tours Contact Information Location: Texas Union Hospitality Desk 2247 Guadalupe St. Austin, Texas 78705 Email: towertours@universityunions.utexas.edu Phone: 512-475-6636 Information and Reservations This is a non-historical tour Information about the Tower's architecture is provided, and it is a wonderful opportunity for photos and a full 360 degree view of Austin and the UT campus. The Tour A 45 minute-long self-guided tour of the UT Tower escorted by UT student guides. Patrons will ride an elevator to the 27th floor of the Tower, then take three short flights of stairs to the observation deck. An auxiliary elevator is available to guests with restricted mobility. Reserve A Ticket Reserve a ticket by either stopping by the Texas Union Hospitality Center at 24th and Guadalupe, or by calling (512) 475-6636. Tickets are reserved in advance, then paid for the day of the tour. All guests must reserve a ticket, regardless of age. Advance reservations are recommended as we’re frequently booked early. Location and Parking Information Guests can park in the University Co-op parking garage (directly behind the Co-op at 23rd and San Antonio). The Texas Union is located at 24th and Guadalupe St. The Hospitality Center is located on the ground floor of the Texas Union, across from the Starbucks. Ticket Purchase & Pickup Pick up and pay for your ticket on the day of your tour at the Texas Union Hospitality Center. Tickets are $6.00 each, regardless of age. You must pick up your tickets no less than 10 minutes prior to the start of your tour. If tickets are not picked up by this time, they will be forfeited. Waitlist If a tour is completely reserved, we will begin a waitlist on the day of the tour. No waitlists are made prior to the day of the tour. You may call or come in person to be placed on the waitlist. Any unclaimed tickets will be released for purchase starting 10 minutes before the start of the tour to those on the waitlist. You MUST be present at the Hospitality Center 10 minutes before the hour to claim your waitlisted tickets. Guidelines We have a very strict no bag policy; this includes bags, purses, wristlets, backpacks, etc. You might want to leave these items in the car, otherwise you can check them for $1. Other items not allowed on the tour include food, beverages, umbrellas, strollers, car seats, or pocket knives. Items allowed on the tour include cameras (without the bag), cell phones/electronic devices, and walkers/wheelchairs. Tours will only be cancelled in the event of lightning, and our staff will attempt to call you (with the phone number provided) to let you know in advance. Please note: restrooms are not available on the tour; however they will be available directly before and after. Guests are not permitted to leave the tour early. Guests are required to pass through a metal detector before entry onto the elevator. Guests must defer to tour guides and UT police officers regarding all tour procedures. Large Groups For groups of 15 or more, please email towertours@universityunions.utexas.edu. Parties of more than 25 must be split into more than one tour. We can raise your numbers (as long as space is available), however we cannot reduce your numbers once the tour is officially booked. Once your tour is booked, one person can pick up tickets at the Texas Union, and the rest of the party can meet directly at the Tower. The carrying of any firearm, including a concealed handgun carried by a license holder, is prohibited on the UT Tower observation deck and in those immediate areas secured by The University of Texas at Austin Police Department (“UTPD”) in advance of any public or private tour. Notice conforming to Texas Penal Code, Section 30.06 will be provided. There will be no gun storage lockers at the UT Tower or Texas Union. The mission of the University Unions is to enhance the student experience and to enrich campus life by providing cultural, educational, social, and recreational programs as well as related goods and services to the campus community. FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram SnapchatSee us on Snapchat TwitterFind us on Twitter Footer menu Events Calendar Tower Tours Employment Cactus Café UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022