Emergency - usf.edu/usfalerts Skip to Main Content University of South Florida Search Search for: Main Navigation Menu Give Now About USF About USF Overview Mission and Goals History and Traditions Facts and Statistics Economic Impact Student Consumer Information Leadership Accreditation Work at USF Visit USF Academics Academics With a proven track record of commitment to student success, USF offers a path for every student. Our academic programs strive to meet the needs of individual learners and turn knowledge and experience into career preparedness. Overview Colleges Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Courses and Calendars Undergraduate and Graduate Studies Academic Resources Libraries Admissions Admissions Overview Freshmen Transfer Graduate International USF Health Locations Locations Overview Tampa Campus St. Petersburg Campus Sarasota-Manatee Campus Instructional Sites Campus Life Campus Life Overview Campus Resources and USF Bookstore Housing and Dining Technology Resources Financial Resources Health and Safety Internships and Student Employment Activities and Programs Arts and Culture Athletics and Fitness Research Research Overview Research & Innovation Student Research Students Faculty Staff Alumni Parents & Family MyUSF Directory University of South Florida Home Pause Find a Major Search for undergraduate majors offered at USF. Estimate Cost Review tuition, financial aid and scholarship opportunities. Apply Now Start your application to become a USF Bull. Visit USF View campus maps, virtual tours and get directions. Boundless Bulls Boundless Bulls is a collection of stories about what truly makes USF great, the people. It is a focus on our community footprint, our impact and the trajectory of where we can go together. Dive in and learn more about the everyday impact our students, faculty, staff and alumni are making within our community and beyond. Learn more USF Features University News Christian Hardigree selected as next regional chancellor of University of South Florida St. Petersburg campus Christian Hardigree most recently served as the founding dean of the School of Hospitality at Metropolitan State University (MSU) of Denver. She will begin her new role at USF on July 1. Read more University News USF School of Hospitality and Tourism Management expands programming to help meet industry demands The University of South Florida Muma College of Business is in the process of adapting its School of Hospitality and Tourism Management to create a talent pipeline and keep pace with pandemic-era trends that have changed the industry. Read more Research New brain-painting method developed at USF being tested for ADHD treatment USF computer scientist Marvin Andujar is harnessing the power of concentration and art to develop a new brain-computer interface (BCI) prototype and help study participants use their brain like never before. The goal is to introduce a novel treatment option for individuals with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) by tapping directly into their brain activity. Read more America's Fastest-Rising University For the third consecutive year, the University of South Florida ranks as one of the nation’s top 50 public universities according to U.S. News and World Report 2022 Best Colleges rankings. Over the past 10 years, USF has risen 48 spots among public universities from No. 94 to No. 46, and 67 spots among all universities (public or private), from No. 170 to No. 103, which represents a greater climb than any other university in the country. Read more Top Producer USF is One of the Nation’s Top 10 Producers of Fulbright Scholars Learn more Top Graduate Programs USF Features 13 Graduate Programs Ranked in the 2023 Top 50 Among all Public and Private Institutions Learn more #8 Ranking USF is the 8th Leading Public University in U.S. Patent Ranking Learn more We are One USF Tampa Campus St. Petersburg Campus Sarasota-Manatee Campus About USF USF News & Events USF News USF biologist discovers ‘skydiving’ salamander The wandering salamander is the first known to have evolved aerial behaviors. Tampa General Hospital and USF Health neurosurgeons first in Tampa Bay to provide patients new innovative ultrasound technology A minimally invasive technique called Focused Ultrasound targets an area of the brain that controls movement, and requires no anesthesia or surgical opening of the skull. More News USF Calendar More Events Registrar Dates and Deadlines Student Events Calendar @usouthflorida University of South Florida Menu About USF Academics Admissions Locations Campus Life Research Administrative Units Regulations & Policies Human Resources Work at USF Emergency & Safety Title IX USF Health USF Athletics USF Alumni Support USF USF Libraries USF World 4202 E. Fowler Avenue Tampa, FL 33620, USA 813-974-2011 Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Snapchat TikTok Copyright © 2022, University of South Florida. All rights reserved. This website is maintained by University Communications and Marketing. About This Site Site Map Contact USF Visit USF Diversity