Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Statistics PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Statistics PhD Apply Events Request More Info Statistics PhD Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Doctor of Philosophy in Statistics Gain rigorous training in statistical theories and methods within a collaborative research environment through the Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Statistics in Temple University’s Fox School of Business. Prepare to address a variety of societal and scientific challenges using statistical tools and test the boundaries of current statistical knowledge. Working closely with world-class faculty at Temple University, you’ll acquire the ability to undertake original research for peer-reviewed academic publications; thorough knowledge of research methodology and its applications; an understanding of new statistical methods and how they apply across disciplines; and the expertise to communicate statistical knowledge effectively. The recommended background for Statistics PhD students includes math, computer science or programming, probability, and writing and communication. All applicants must have completed coursework in Differential and Integral Calculus, including Multivariable Calculus, as well as a course in Linear Algebra. Learn more about admissions requirements for Statistics PhD applicants. Throughout the course of the program, doctoral students build a body of research that should make a substantial contribution to the science of statistics. The curriculum provides robust support for your research activities, with dynamic coursework offering flexibility to suit a variety of interests. Department-led seminars, student forums and in-depth academic conference preparation provide collaborative ways to engage with the research process. Request Information Learn more about the Statistics PhD program. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Request Information Apply Faculty Research Interests The PhD in Statistics features a dedicated full-time faculty well-versed in a variety of research subjects. Faculty members specialize in research areas including Bayesian inference and data analysis, causal inference, data privacy, design of experiments, high-dimensional inference and data analysis, linear and generalized linear models, multiple testing, network data analysis, pharmaceutical statistics, statistical computing, statistical learning and data mining, statistical methodology and theory, sufficient dimension reduction, and time series analysis. Learn more about Fox School of Business research Classes & Curriculum Core courses you will take as part of the Statistics PhD program include Advanced Statistical Inference I, Advanced Statistical Inference II, Probability and Statistics Theory I, Probability and Statistics Theory II, Statistical Methods I, and Statistical Methods II. Learn more about the Statistics PhD curriculum. Related Graduate Certificates Business Analytics Innovation Strategy Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $920.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1262.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Examinations and Dissertation All students are required to take a Screening Exam in the summer between their first and second years. Having passed the Screening Exam, students will continue to meet course requirements and simultaneously explore research interests to pursue for their dissertation. Once a student completes the coursework component of the program, they must then take and pass the Preliminary Exam within one semester’s time. The Screening Exam is graded pass or fail. Students are only allowed two opportunities to take the Screening Exam. The distinguishing characteristic of the PhD program is its Research Dissertation. The dissertation proposal demonstrates the student's knowledge of and ability to conduct the proposed research. The proposal should consist of a detailed methodological plan for investigating the problem; an exhaustive survey and review of literature related to the problem; the context and background surrounding a particular research problem; and solid preliminary evidence of the research development. The proposal should generally be completed and approved no more than one year after completing coursework. Upon approval, a timeline for completing the investigation and writing process is established. An original empirical study that makes a significant contribution to the field, a student’s dissertation should expand the existing knowledge and demonstrate the student's knowledge of both research methods and a mastery of her/his primary area of interest. Dissertations should be rigorously investigated; uphold the ethics and standard of the field; demonstrate an in-depth understanding of the primary area of interst and related fields; and be prepared for publication in an academic journal. PhD Mentoring The Fox School of Business formally encourages a culture of mentoring in which faculty and students collaborate on joint research and projects. Both formal and informal, this mentoring provides support for PhD students as they adapt to the rigors of academic life and successful scholarship. Discover advisors within the Statistics PhD program. Program Contact For questions regarding the Statistics PhD, contact the following staff members. Lisa Fitch is the senior associate director for doctoral programs. Phone: 215-204-7677 Email: foxphdoffice@temple.edu Zhigen Zhao, associate professor and director of the graduate program, is the concentration advisor for the Statistics PhD. Phone: 215-204-6208 Email: zhaozhg@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. Fox offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Supplement your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in Fox. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Fox Professional Speakers invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Fox graduate students can participate in Global Immersions. They are destination-focused learning experiences that allow graduate students to engage with a different country's culture, language and business practices. Global Immersions expose students to comparative business environments, global business in emerging markets, global companies working to solve crucial problems, intensive and diverse learning experiences, and international innovation and entrepreneurship. Previous destinations include China, India, Latin America and South Africa. Recent participating companies include Black and Decker, BMW, Deloitte, Microsoft and SanDisk. Learn more about Global Immersion Programs. Temple also offers interested students a variety of options for pursuing internship, teaching and volunteer opportunities abroad through the Center for International Business and Research. Learn more about your options for studying or working abroad. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-STAT-PHD Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Statistics PhD Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info