Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Research and Innovation Week Orientation Professional Development Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Meet our Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog ☰ The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Current Students Forms and Policies Forms and Policies Forms for Admission to Ph.D. Candidacy When you are ready to apply for candidacy as a Ph.D. student, please submit the following forms to the Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies. These can also be sent directly by the department. Dean's Approval for Admission to Candidacy Ph.D. Qualifying Examination Report (DocuSign Version initiated by student) If a student will be receiving an en-route master's degree, the department must notify the Director of Graduate Studies within the department prior to the graduation application deadline for that semester. Forms for Graduation Master's Degree Establishment of Examination Committee Written/Oral Examination Report (non-thesis) (DocuSign Version initiated by student) Oral Examination Report (thesis) (DocuSign Version initiated by student) Program Completion Report (MASDA students only) (DocuSign Version initiated by student) SMU Scholar Deposit Agreement form (thesis) (DocuSign Version initiated by student) Ph.D. Degree Establishment of Examination Committee Ph.D. Examination Report (DocuSign Version initiated by student one or two days prior to scheduled defense day only) SMU Scholar Deposit Agreement form(dissertation) (DocuSign Version initiated by student) Registrar Forms Registrar Forms Library The Registrar maintains the forms that must be processed by their office. Certain forms can only be accessed by faculty or staff, so you should check with your departmental Director of Graduate Studies or the Moody School if you need to access a restricted form, such as the Enrollment Discrepancy Petition (used to add or drop a class after the deadline). Graduate Student Policies All SMU graduate students should be familiar with the following policies and resources: SMU Graduate Student Catalog The catalog provides the rules governing graduate student admission and degree requirements. Be sure to click on the right catalog for your program (for example, a Chemistry graduate student should select the Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences graduate catalog). SMU Honor Code SMU Student Code of Conduct & Conduct Review Policy SMU Sexual Misconduct Policies and Resources Required Training Students conducting research must complete training to remain in compliance with all pertinent regulations. See the Research Compliance Training at SMU website for details on what types of training are required and how to satisfy those requirements in a timely manner. Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share