Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Communication and Fine Arts About Academic Support Alumni Arts Entrepreneurship Events Research Resources Scholarships Voices Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Students star on the stage at the U of M U of M Theatre & Dance Building for the future Department of Architecture UofM Bands Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Dance Studio Practice Department of Theatre & Dance Film and Video Production Department of Communication The Daily Helmsman Department of Journalism & Strategic Media There's a lot to see at the AMUM! Art Museum of the University of Memphis Envisioning the next big masterpiece. Department of Art PreviousNext Take Action Apply Now Get Advised Read Voices Donate Now Follow CCFA Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Nationally Ranked # 152 U.S. News and World Report Fine Arts - Graduate View All Rankings Home College of Communication and Fine Arts (CCFA) Creativity never goes out of style. Neither does intelligence, and at the College of Communication and Fine Arts, you'll be surrounded by both. With the city of Memphis as a backdrop, we are educating tomorrow's creative professionals. Music, theatre, art, dance, architecture, and communication arts are more alive in Memphis than in some cities double our size. To come study here, is to light a creative fire that will burn long and hard—equipping you and your classmates to become leaders in creative industries. There's magic in being around creative people. In both expected and unexpected ways, you will interact with other big idea people in both real-world and academic settings. Here, there is a genuine spirit of cooperation in a down-to-earth environment that gives you the freedom to be you. Faculty members who are gifted beyond belief in the humanities; social sciences; fine and performing arts; architecture; and design and communication arts and sciences will inspire you. We are driven to help you create. Be bold. Be different. To stretch your thinking and yourself. To push beyond. That's what Memphis does. Meet Dean Anne Hogan > CCFA News CCFA Gives New Life to the Journal of Arts Entrepreneurship Education University of Memphis Gives New Life to the Journal of Arts Entrepreneurship Education Read more Kim Marks Malone, APR, Fellow PRSA receives Steve and Linda Simon Family Fellowship Kim Marks Malone is a Public Relations and Journalism Professor at the University of Memphis and the adviser for the university's student-run strategic communication firm, Meeman 901 Strategies Read more Dr. Earnestine Jenkins featured in Forbes article Jenkins, who specializes in African American Diaspora history, was lauded in the article for recently establishing a graduate concentration on Arts of Africa and the African Diaspora Read more Changing the Narrative with Alum Garrett McQueen Garrett McQueen's love for music has taken him to places he never dreamed Read more For more CCFA news updates, visit the CCFA Voices Online blog. CCFA Professional Reinvention Series The Professional Reinvention series will offer a range of interviews with successful professionals who have trained in disciplines such as those we offer in CCFA, and who have embraced opportunities, as well as challenges, in their careers that have led to experiences they may not have anticipated during their studies, and/or at various moments in their career progression. Stay tuned for more videos in this series to come in 2022. Professional Reinvention #1 - Todd Richardson Professional Reinvention #2 - Rachel Knox CCFA Graduate Program Highlights <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe --> Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/26/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.