Skip to main content User account menu Penn Home Business Services College Houses & Academic Services Off-Campus Services Penn Dining My Home At Penn Search Search Home Living Options Living Options What it's Like to #LIVEPENN The College Houses and Sansom Place offer distinct room types, amenities, and communities. Options range from traditional single and double rooms that share a common hallway bathroom to suites and apartments offering more privacy, and in some cases, a living room and kitchen. Living Options College Houses Graduate Housing Room Furnishings Rates & Pricing Room Selection Room Selection Ready to apply for housing? The College Houses and Sansom Place offer distinct room types, amenities, and communities. Options range from traditional single and double rooms that share a common hallway bathroom to suites and apartments offering more privacy. Room Selection How To Apply Medical Accommodations Summer Housing Gender Inclusive Housing Additional Information Moving Info Moving info Getting ready & getting there Move-In and Move-Out are two of the biggest times of year for Penn Housing, and we're here to make the transition easy. Planning ahead is a good way to successfully meet academic demands while organizing to move in or out of your residence. Moving Info Before You Move In Day Of Move-In Before You Move Out Day Of Move-Out About Us About Us We’re Here to Help Living and learning, at their best, combine to create the ultimate university experience at Penn. At Residential Services, we are here to connect you to the resources at the center of your residential experience. About Us Continuous Improvement Student Employment RSAB RESOURCES RESIDENTIAL HANDBOOK Search News & Updates Contact Us Penn Home Business Services College Houses & Academic Services Off-Campus Services Penn Dining My Home At Penn Main navigation Home Living Options Living Options What it's Like to #LIVEPENN The College Houses and Sansom Place offer distinct room types, amenities, and communities. Options range from traditional single and double rooms that share a common hallway bathroom to suites and apartments offering more privacy, and in some cases, a living room and kitchen. Living Options College Houses Graduate Housing Room Furnishings Rates & Pricing Room Selection Room Selection Ready to apply for housing? The College Houses and Sansom Place offer distinct room types, amenities, and communities. Options range from traditional single and double rooms that share a common hallway bathroom to suites and apartments offering more privacy. Room Selection How To Apply Medical Accommodations Summer Housing Gender Inclusive Housing Additional Information Moving Info Moving info Getting ready & getting there Move-In and Move-Out are two of the biggest times of year for Penn Housing, and we're here to make the transition easy. Planning ahead is a good way to successfully meet academic demands while organizing to move in or out of your residence. Moving Info Before You Move In Day Of Move-In Before You Move Out Day Of Move-Out About Us About Us We’re Here to Help Living and learning, at their best, combine to create the ultimate university experience at Penn. At Residential Services, we are here to connect you to the resources at the center of your residential experience. About Us Continuous Improvement Student Employment RSAB RESOURCES RESIDENTIAL HANDBOOK Search Menu We've Got You Covered Penn Residential Services Living and learning, at their best, combine to create the ultimate university experience at Penn. Penn Residential Services is here to connect you to the resources at the center of your residential experience. From managing your living spaces to taking care of the buildings that facilitate your participation in your College House, our focus is always on supporting you. What We Offer Home Away From Home The College Houses and Sansom Place offer distinct room types, amenities, and communities. Options range from traditional single and double rooms that share a common hallway and bathroom to suites and apartments offering more privacy, and in some cases, a living room and kitchen. Living Options Ready To Make Your Room Selection How To Apply Everything you need To Succeed Resources The Second-Year Experience Two is better than One Penn’s Second-Year Experience initiative includes a two-year housing requirement. Residential Services is supporting this commitment by providing new and distinctive housing options for students to build off of their first-year living in the College Houses. Learn More Need To Know Important Dates March 15 Room Change If you have selected a room through the Room Selection Processes but would prefer a different room type and/or location you may apply for a room change using the Room Change Request Form at MyHomeAtPenn. To learn more information, click the Room Change 2022-2023 button. Room Change 2022-2023 March 17 Spring 2022 Room Change If you are interested in a room change for your current spring 2022 room assignment, you may apply for a room change using the Room Change Request Form at MyHomeAtPenn. To learn more information, click the Room Change Spring 2022 button. Room Change Spring 2022 March 17 Rolling Undergraduate Application The Rolling Undergraduate Application will open in the afternoon of Thursday, March 17 via MyHomeAtPenn. This process gives you the first opportunity after Room Selection to list your preferences and secure a bed on-campus for next year. Once your application and preferences are submitted, Housing Occupancy staff will work to process assignments beginning mid-April. We anticipate having bed spaces available post Room Selection, so be sure to get your application in! April 4 Graduate Housing Application The graduate housing application for the 2022-2023 academic year opens on April 4th. For more information, click on the Graduate Housing Application button. Graduate Housing Application April 30- May 6 Early Move-Out On these dates, students are encouraged to sign up for a departure time to officially register move out of their College House. Students will be able to sign out a cart for two hours to help with their move. The streets will not be posted for parking and there will not be staff available to assist with parking and moving items down steps in selected buildings. Planning For Move Out May 5 to May 31 at 11:59pm EDT First-Year Housing Application Review your housing options for your first year at Penn! Once you are ready, complete Housing Application anytime between May 5 to May 31 at 11:59pm EDT. The date you submit does not impact your priority during this time period. For more information, click Room Selection. Room Selection May 7 - May 11 Move-Out Non-graduating undergraduate students must move out of their College House by 5 pm on Wednesday, May 11. May 17 Graduating Senior Move-Out Seniors graduating in May or August 2022 will automatically receive an extension to move-out on Tuesday, May 17 at noon. June 16 Transfer & Exchange Student Housing Application Review your housing options for your first year at Penn! Once you are ready, complete Housing Application anytime between June 16 to June 30 at 11:59pm EDT. The date you submit does not impact your priority during this time period. For more information, click Room Selection. Room Selection We Oversee 13 College Houses We Support 5500 Residents News + Updates March 25, 2021 A Q&A with the House Director of New College House West With New College House West nearing completion, students making their housing selections for fall have the opportunity to be a part of history as the inaugural residents. Penn Today View All News Department of Residential Services Sansom Place West 3650 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 Hours: Monday–Friday, 9AM–5PM Phone: 215-898-3547 Email: living@upenn.edu Living Options Living Options College Houses Graduate Housing Room Amenities Rates & Pricing About Us About Us Continuous Improvement Student Employment RSAB Residential Handbook Resources Resources News + Updates Contact Us Privacy Policy Moving Info Moving Info Before You Move In Day of Move-In Before You Move Out Day of Move-Out Room Selection Room Selection How To Apply Medical Accommodations Summer Housing Gender Inclusive Housing Additional Information Copyright © 2020 University of Pennsylvania | Disclaimer | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help