Skip to main content SMU SMU Ignited Menu Search Here we go, Mustangs! A 19-year-old law grad with a penchant for policy and an 85-year-old film major launching a new career. These are just two of the Mustangs breaking the mold and charting their personal paths to life’s next chapter. Students May 12, 2022Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Video Breaking age barriers A nearly seven-decade age difference didn’t matter when Haley Taylor Schlitz, 19, and Marillyn Seeberger, 85, met up to talk about their student experiences. Schlitz will graduate with a J.D., becoming SMU’s youngest-ever law school graduate. Sixty-eight years after graduating from high school, Seeberger is fulfilling her dream by earning a B.A. in film and media arts with plans to write screenplays. Ryan Booth ’22 “My favorite SMU memory was having the entire debate team help me prepare for the final round of the World Championship of IPDA [International Public Debate Association] debate and then winning the title for my team and school. It was a huge moment, not only for myself, but also for the team; we had been building for this for the past four years.” Ryan Booth grew up in Alamo, California, and graduates with a BBA in finance and and a B.A. in political science. He made history by winning SMU’s first international debate title. Thanks to encouragement from his professors in the Cox School of Business, he’ll work on a master’s degree in business analytics at SMU next year. Video Empowered by her passion for change Cinthia Resendez ’21, ’22 wrapped up her M.S. in accounting after receiving a BBA in accounting and a B.A. in Spanish from SMU last year. The Dallasite says finding her “passion for creating and aiding change” has been surprising and fulfilling. Over the summer, Resendiz will be studying for her CPA exam, and in September, she will join PwC as an audit associate in the Dallas office. Isabelle Galko ’22 “The mentorship and support I’ve received from SMU are unparalleled. I’ve been able to do undergraduate research through the Richter Fellowship, worked on renewable energy policy for the city of Dallas as a Tower Scholar, and received a Marshall Scholarship to continue studying climate change and environmental policy in graduate school in the UK.” Isabelle Galko spent some time in Australia as a child but considers Austin, Texas, her hometown. She graduates with a B.S. in environmental science. As a Marshall Scholar next year, she plans to use her time in the UK “to link science with effective policy and gain a British perspective for future policymaking.” Nia Kamau ’22 “The research funding and mentorship at SMU are incredible; through the school's support, I have been able to get published in an academic journal; conduct research interviews with African members of Parliament, and so much more! Opportunities like these are common across campus, but they aren't something I hear my peers at other schools experiencing.” Nia Kamau hails from Little Elm, Texas, and graduates with a B.A. in human rights and a B.A. in international studies. With the support of the U.S. Department of State’s Thomas R. Pickering Foreign Affairs Fellowship, she will pursue a master’s of public policy degree at Yale University's Jackson School for Global Affairs. Afterward, she will serve as a foreign service officer as part of her fellowship. Video Finding endless opportunities Olivia Ramirez ’22 has an enviable problem: too many great memories of her student years to pick a favorite. Ramirez grew up in Austin, Texas, and will graduate with a B.A. in studio art and a B.A. in advertising with a specialization in digital media strategy, which she’ll put to work as a celebrity and influencer coordinator at The Marketing Arm, a Dallas advertising agency. Abena Marfo ’22 “My advice for any high school students considering SMU is to not count yourself out before you even apply. There is a strong community here waiting to shower you with support, care and love. And once you’re at SMU, you’ll be encouraged to dip your toe into anything that you find yourself drawn to; hence why I am leaving this institution with three different degrees.” Abena Marfo grew up in Dallas and is graduating with a B.S. in sociology, a B.S. in health and society and a B.A. in human rights. She’ll continue her studies at Emory University’s Rollins School of Public Health as a candidate for a master’s in public health. She’s leaving a lasting legacy on the Hilltop as a co-founder of SMU’s First-Generation Association and by co-leading the implementation of a distinctive stole to be worn with their graduation regalia by first-gen students for years to come. Making a world of difference Outgoing Student Body President Austin Hickle ’22 led change on campus by listening, persuading, motivating and championing causes he cared about. He capped his term by rallying the Student Senate to unanimously approve the establishment of two new need-based scholarships to make an SMU education more accessible to students with significant financial need. “Creating positive and lasting change, change that actually impacts the lives of people who have been adversely affected by inequality and injustice, is my passion,” he says. “But this goal is hard to achieve. It takes not just passion, but also time.” He’ll graduate with a B.A. in economics and a B.A. in public policy. Video What’s next for this future policymaker? Hear Austin Hickle ’22 discuss his post-graduation plans fueled by Fulbright and Truman scholarships. StudentsGraduation May 12, 2022Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email SMU announces "Access SMU," a new initiative to help exceptional students from Texas who receive federal Pell Grants and SMU merit scholarships pursue their college dreams. Learn more Close Menu Make your day a Mustang Day! Mustang Days give you a 360° view of SMU in a virtual setting. Get the inside track on admission, scholarships, financial aid, and campus life. Schedule a visit Close Menu 0 Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour Academics Overview Majors and Minors Libraries SMU Research Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development The Guildhall Student Life Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life SMU and Dallas Virtual Tour About About SMU Administration Annual Report Core Values Diversity and Inclusion Maps and Directions Mission Statement Strategic Plan News Events Athletics Research Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search