Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Secondary Nav Penn OLI Contact Us Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn OLI Courses & Programs For Faculty & Online Teams For Penn Students About Drawer Menu Penn OLI Courses & Programs Explore Back to main menu Search Offerings Learner Questions For Faculty & Online Teams Explore Back to main menu How to Create Vital Online Communities Faculty & Online Teams Questions Contact Us For Penn Students About Explore Back to main menu OLI Team Faculty Advisory Committee Explore Back to main menu Working Groups OLI News FAQs Contact Us Search Group Created with Sketch. Courses & Programs Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn OLI Courses & Programs Explore Back to main menu Search Offerings Learner Questions For Faculty & Online Teams Explore Back to main menu How to Create Vital Online Communities Faculty & Online Teams Questions Contact Us For Penn Students About Explore Back to main menu OLI Team Faculty Advisory Committee Explore Back to main menu Working Groups OLI News FAQs Contact Us Looking for opportunities to expand your knowledge and prepare for a rapidly changing job market? The Online Learning Initiative partners with the University of Pennsylvania’s twelve schools to advance the development and delivery of online learning, creating flexible options for learners across the globe. Search for credit and non-credit experiences on Penn's Online Learning Platform and create a customized path to help you gain new skills no matter where you live. Search Penn's Online Offerings Choosing the right option(s) for you You have lots options for learning online at the University of Pennsylvania. Each of the University’s twelve schools offers experiences that help you meet your personal and professional goals. Looking to build a specific skill in a short amount of time? A MOOC (massive open online course), Specialization, or Series might be the right path for you. Interested in a deeper exploration of a topic where you earn university credit? A degree or for-credit certificate might fit your needs. Before exploring all of the course options, think about what you’d like to get out of the experience and what type of experience best fits your life. Keep in mind that all of these options can be combined and, in some instances, build on each other. Learning Experiences Degrees & Certificates: Earn a degree or incorporate for credit experiences into your course of study Non-Credit Certificates: Explore topics deeply without earning University of Pennsylvania credit Continuing Education Units: Satisfy professional development requirements tailored to your field MOOCs: Focus on a specific skill or topic in a 4-6 module (week) non-credit course Series & Specializations: Dive deeper into skills or topics over a series of non-credit courses usually completed in 3-6 months Microcredentials: Follow a path that can lead to credit towards a degree Create your own learning pathway FAQs OLI News Give Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Van Pelt-Dietrich Library 3420 Walnut St Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-1598 Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Contact Us Accessibility Office of the Provost