Skip to main content GSD Logo Harvard University Graduate School of Design Reopening Menu Search Academics Department of Architecture Department of Landscape Architecture Department of Urban Planning and Design Design Studies Design Engineering Doctoral Programs Undergraduate Architecture Studies Loeb Fellowship Executive Education Early Design Education Research Courses More ▼ Apply GSD Now Give People Faculty Staff Students Alumni About Administrative Leadership Council Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Alumni and Friends Website Resources Most Popular: Admissions COVID-19 Financial Aid Frances Loeb Library Student Affairs Offices & Services All Resources → For: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Explore News Events Exhibitions Publications Podcasts Projects Topics Site Index Jump to: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A AIA Henry Adams Certificate AIA Henry Adams Medal AICP Outstanding Student Award Academic Affairs Academic Appointments and Policies Academic Calendars & Schedules Academic Conduct Policy Academic Integrity Academic Services & Advising Accellion Secure File Transfer Accessibility Services Accessibility Services at Public Programs Access to Career Services During Leave of Absence Accreditation Administrative Leadership Council Admissions Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions FAQ AfricaGSD After MDes Workshops After MDes Workshops Aga Khan Program at the GSD Alpha Rho Chi Medal Alumni Connections Alumni Council Career Panels American Society of Landscape Architects Awards Application Checklist Apply Apply for Financial Aid Apply for a Job with Computer Resources Applying for Restricted Scholarships Araldo A. Cossutta Annual Prize for Design Excellence Architecture Architecture Core Prep Areas of Concentration Art, Design, and the Public Domain Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2018 Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2019 Attendance Augmented & Virtual Reality (AR/VR) Award Details Award for Excellence in Project-Based Urban Planning Award for Excellence in Urban Design Award for Outstanding Leadership in Urban Planning and Urban Design B Benefits & Perks Biking Borrowing Print Materials Building Services Business Cards for Students C COVID-19 Information for Staff COVID-19 Testing and Tracing CREATE for Alumni CREATE for Employers CREATE for Students Canvas Capital Improvements and Projects Career Paths by Program Career Resources for Alumni Career Services: Alumni Career Services: Employers Career Services: FAQs Career Services: Faculty Career Services: Students Career Services Offerings Career Services Video Library Careers Casual Conversations With GSD Alumni Change of Address Charles Abrams Scholarship Charles Eliot Traveling Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Chauhaus Classroom Equipment Classroom Technology Clifford Wong Prize in Housing Design Commencement 2022 Commencement Information Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Communications Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Computer Accounts and Passwords Computer Labs Computer Recommendations Computer Requirements Computer Resources Group Concurrent and Joint Degrees Connecting to the File Server Connect with the GSD Contact Contact Admissions Contact Financial Aid Contact the GSD Cost Recovery Policy Course Catalog Course Descriptions Course Info Sessions and Videos Critical Conservation Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2018 Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2019 Cross-Registration Policies & Procedures Current MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements Current MUP Degree Requirements Curriculum Custodial Services D DDes & PhD Financial Aid DDes/PhD Open House Schedule DDes Guidelines for the Dissertation DDes Guidelines for the General Exam DDes Guidelines for the Prospectus DIB Annual Report DIB Programs Daniel L. Schodek Award for Technology and Sustainability Daniel Urban Kiley Teaching Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Dean’s Office Degree Checks Degree Programs Degree Requirements Policies Degree Verifications Design Computing at the GSD Design Labs Design Now: A Quarterly Podcast from Harvard’s Graduate School of Design Design Studies Thesis Prize Desktop 3D Printing Regulations Development and Alumni Relations Digital Delivery and Electronic Resources Digital Design Prize Digital Governance Policy Dimitris Pikionis Award Directions Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging at Career Services Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Offerings Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Resources Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Doctoral Grader (Union Position) Doctoral Programs Doctor of Design Program (DDes) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Document Request Form Druker Traveling Fellowship E ETH Zurich Exchange Program Early Design Education Ecologies Eligibility Email Accounts Emergencies Employer Presentations Employers & Career Paths for Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for Landscape Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for MDE Students Employers & Career Paths for MDes and DDes Students Employers & Career Paths for Urban Planning and Design Students Endowed Fellowships & Financial Aid Funds Energy and Environment Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2017 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2018 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2019 Enrollment Certifications Enrollment Policies Environmental Health and Safety at the GSD Equipment for Classroom Instruction Equitable Accountability Ergonomics Event Audiovisual Support Event Participation for Alumni Event Planning for Faculty and Staff Event Planning for Students Events Events Archive Executive Education Exemptions, Waivers, and Substitutions for MUPs Exhibitions F FAQ FERPA Fabrication Laboratory Faculty Faculty: Collaborate With Career Services Faculty Affairs Office Faculty Directory Faculty Handbooks, Administrative Policies, and Guidelines for Instruction Faculty Research Federal Work-Study Information Fellowships, Funding Sources, and Internships for Students Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Ferdinand Colloredo-Mansfeld Prize for Superior Achievement in Real Estate Studies Final Review Schedule (Spring 2021 – M1, Full-term, M2) Finance Office Financial Aid Financial Aid Application Process for Current Students Financial Aid Application for Prospective Students Financial Aid FAQ Financial Aid Handbook Financial Aid and Satisfactory Progress Financial Matters First Meetings for Option Studios Flexwork at the GSD Frances Loeb Library Fulbright U.S. Student Program G GLACIER GSD-Courances Residency Program GSD Alumni Council Career Panels GSD Community Calendar GSD Consumer Information GSD Diversity Cabinet GSD Payroll Coordinators GSD Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund GSD Radio GSD Student Payroll GSD Web Style Gain Experience General Ledger Gifts & Grants Grading Grant Aid H Harvard-MIT Course Logistics Harvard GSD Job & Internship Fair 2022 Harvard Graduate School of Design Employer Recruiting Policies Harvard Graduate School of Design Fact Book Harvard ID Card Harvard International Office Harvard Shuttle and Van Service Harvard Travel Registry Health Services Heating/Cooling Schedule Help Desk Hiring Students: Information for Faculty History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2018 History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2019 History and Philosophy of Design and Media Home How To Plot How to Post an Event to GSD Now How to Write a Resume That Stands Out Human Resources Human Resources Forms & Policies Hybrid Classroom I IT Policies Income Processing Policy and Procedures Information for Current DDes Students Information for Current PhD Students Installing AEScript AfterEffects Plugin Installing Adobe’s Creative Cloud Software Installing ArcGis Installing AutoDesk Installing Cargo Installing Cinema 4D Installing ClimateStudio Installing DesignBuilder Installing Diva for Rhino Installing Flovent Installing GRANTA EduPack Installing Houdini Installing KeyShot Installing MasterCam Installing MathCAD Installing Miro Installing Modelo Installing Multiframe and MicroStation Installing Printers For Windows Installing Printers for Mac Installing Reality Capture Installing Render Services Installing Rhino Installing RhinoTerrain Installing RobotStudio Installing SketchUp Installing SolidWorks Installing VRay for 3DS Max Installing VRay for Rhino Installing Windows on a Mac Using Parallels International Financial Aid International Student Resources Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Alien Staff Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Bunker Hill Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Dis-Armor Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – El Centro Cultural Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Hiroshima Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Homeless Vehicle Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Loro Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Personal Instrument Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Poliscar Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Abraham Lincoln Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Admiral Farragut Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Central Library Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The City Hall Tower Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Kunstmuseum Basel Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The New Mechelenians Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Real Estate Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Vehicle Irving Innovation Fellowship J J-Term Jacob Weidenman Prize James Templeton Kelley Prize Job Search Resources: Planning, Urban Design, Real Estate Julia Amory Appleton Traveling Fellowship in Architecture K KPF Traveling Fellowship Kevin V. Kieran Prize Key Requests L Landscape Architecture Landscape Architecture Faculty Office Hours Landscape Architecture Thesis Prize Leave of Absence Leaves/Withdrawals and Tuition Charges Library Access & Borrowing Library Liaisons Library Resources & Services Library Resources for Alumni and Visitors Library Staff Life at the GSD Limited-Enrollment Lottery LinkedIn Learning @ Harvard Live Course Presentations Living Guidebook to Virtual Teaching and Learning Living in Cambridge Loan Deferments Loeb Fellowship M MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements MAUD/MLAUD Student Work MArch Course Waiver and Substitution Policy and Procedures MArch Distributional Electives MArch Financial Aid MArch I AP Required Courses MArch II Required Courses MArch I Required Courses MArch Open House Schedule MArch Split Option MArch Thesis Program MDE Open House Schedule MDes Financial Aid MDes Open House Schedule MDes Research and Development Award MDes Technology MLA Degree Requirements MLA Financial Aid MLA Open House Schedule MLA Thesis Guidelines MLA Waivers and Substitutions MUP & MAUD Financial Aid MUP Degree Requirements MUP Outreach Mail Center Mail Policy Master in Architecture I Master in Architecture II Master in Design Engineering Master in Design Studies (MDes) Master in Design Studies (MDes) Pre-Fall 2021 Master in Landscape Architecture I Master in Landscape Architecture I AP Master in Landscape Architecture II Master in Real Estate Master in Urban Planning Master in Urban Planning and Juris Doctor Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Administration Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Health Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Policy Meditation Room Mediums Microsoft Teams Mindfulness, Stress Reduction, & Time Management N NAAB Accreditation Information and Resources Narratives News News Archive Newsletter Nondiscrimination Policy Norman T. Newton Prize O Obtaining a MA State ID Card Office Hour Signup Tools Office Updates Office for Urbanization Office of Career Services Office of Student Affairs Online Registration (my.Harvard) Online Teaching Resources Open Access Policy Open Faculty Positions Open House Open Non-Faculty Academic Positions Opportunities to Recruit GSD Students Option Studio Lottery Spring 2022 Option Studio Presentations Organizational Charts Orientation and Registration for Incoming Students Other Courses of Interest Other J-Term Opportunities Outside Scholarships Outstanding Leadership in Real Estate Award P Page Lists Shortcodes Parking Participate in the Summer Community Service Fellowship Program Paul M. Heffernan International Travel Award Paying for Your Program Payroll Penny White Project Fund Performance Management Performance Management Permanent Records Personnel Manuals Person of Interest (POI) Peter Rice Internship Program at Renzo Piano Building Workshop Peter Rice Prize Peter Walker and Partners Fellowship for Landscape Architecture PhD Student Bios Photo Lab Photography Guidelines Planning Newsletter Plimpton-Poorvu Design Prize Podcasts Policy on Personal Conduct Pollman Fellowship in Real Estate and Urban Development Pre-orientation for New Students Printing Costs Printing Guide Printing Tips and Known Issues Prize for Academic Excellence in Urban Planning and Urban Design Program History Program Pedagogy Projects Protected: Poster Presentations for CSFP Fellows Public Programs Publications Publics Purchases & Expenses R REA Fund Recipients Rafael Moneo Rome Travel Award Real Estate and the Built Environment Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2017 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2018 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2019 Recent DDes Graduates Recent PhD graduates Recommended Backgrounds for Option Studios Recycling, Freecycling and Composting Refunds Registrar Registration Registration Procedures Replacement Diplomas Request Update to Profile Photo Requesting a GSD Subsite Requirements 2017-18 Requirements 2018-19 Research Research Administration Research Administration Resources Research Assistant (Union Position) Research Centers & Programs Research Fellow (Union Position) Research Programs & Initiatives Research Reports & Publications Resource Center Resources for New Graduates Resources for Partners and Families Respectful and Transparent Engagement Return to Campus & Technology Richard Rogers Fellowship Risk and Resilience Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2018 Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2019 Robert A. M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) Room Reservations S Safety, Health, and Wellbeing Sample Job Posting #1 Sample Job Posting #2 Scanners Scholarships for International Students Scholarships for US Citizens and Eligible Non-citizens Seating Charts and Assigned Seating Security Shift Schedule Social Media Social Media Special Collections Special Interest Links for Architecture Students Spiritual Life Spring 2021 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2021 Thesis Review Schedule Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Final Review Schedule Staff Awards & Recognition Staff Directory Staff Newsletter Staff Printing Stationery and Branding Student & Alumni Events Student Academic Affairs Committee Student Directory Student Employment Student Forum Student Forum Open ZOOM Room Student Group Directory Student Group Guide Student Policies Student Records and Transcript Policies Student Travel Information and Costs for Option Studios Students on Leave of Absence Studio Abroad Studio Culture Policy Studio Electricity Summer Peer-Learning Sessions Sustainability at the GSD T Takenaka Summer Internship Talking Practice Tax Resources Teaching Assistant & Research Assistant: Faculty Resources Teaching Assistant (Union Position) Teaching Fellow (Union Position) Technical and Administrative Positions (Non-union Positions) Technology Guide Technology – Required Courses 2018 Technology – Required Courses 2019 Telephones Term Bill The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Title IX Tokyo Summer Workshop Topics Transcripts Transportation Travel Safety and Guidelines Traveling Fellowships Tuition Tuition and Financial Aid U UPD Faculty Office Hours UPD Thesis Guidelines Undergraduate Architecture Studies University Policies & Procedures Updating Staff Profile Photos Urban Design Faculty Profiles Urban Planning and Design Urban Planning and Design Open House Schedule Urban Planning and Design Thesis Prize Urban Planning and Public Policy Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2018 Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2019 Utilizing LinkedIn V VPN Service Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design Veteran and Military Benefits Virtual & On-Campus Events W Web: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Web Editing: Media Web Profile Photos Wellness Resources Wheelwright Prize Who We Are Work Opportunities for Students Work Order Request Form Workshops and Personal Development 2 2020 Oct Iframe test 2021-2022 Academic Year Planning 2022 Application FAQs 2022 J-Term Courses Submit Search Resource Center Resources for Partners and Families Partners Harvard Athletics Library Access Auditing Courses Students’ Spouses and Partners Association (HSSPA) Volunteer Opportunities Harvard Neighbors International Group Family Life Harvard Childcare and Education Resources Private Lactation Spaces at Harvard Office of Work/Life Resources Activities to Do with Children Parent Support Groups International Family Resources Resources for Partners Membership to Harvard Athletics Graduate students may buy a family membership for a spouse and any dependent children. Memberships can be purchased online through the Harvard Athletics webpage or obtained in person at the Athletic Ticket Office. Harvard Department of Athletics phone: (617) 495-1789 gocrimson.com Library Cards for Spouses/Partners Spouses/partners can obtain library privileges for Harvard College libraries by visiting the Library Privileges Office located on the first floor of Widener Library, Room 130. Please note, the GSD library is not included. Please click here for information on obtaining a card for our library. Library Privileges Office Widener Library, Room 130 Harvard Yard phone: (617) 495-4166 widpriv@fas.harvard.edu Auditing or “Sitting in On” Courses Only Harvard students in degree programs can audit, and, officially, there is a form that must be signed by the instructor to allow it. Adult family members may sit in on regular lecture courses at FAS and some other graduate schools, but may not formally audit at the GSD. The public lecture series and daily lectures by student groups, Loeb fellows, and faculty can usually provide more than enough content for one to absorb. Harvard Students’ Spouses and Partners Association (HSSPA) HSSPA is an organization open to spouses and partners of all Harvard students. Since 1896 it has provided a way for its members to make friends, find intellectual stimulation and, most of all, and feel a sense of belonging within the University. HSSPA organizes a variety of events throughout the year for Harvard students and their spouses and families, such as social gatherings, dinners and outings. If you are interested in their events and activities or have any questions, contact them directly. Harvard Students’ Spouses and Partners Association hsspa.harvard.edu Volunteer Opportunities Many institutions, especially those that operate on a non-profit basis, depend on the goodwill of people who contribute their skills and time without pay. Volunteering is an opportunity to become involved in the local community, to meet people from outside the University, and to learn something about American society. Volunteering may also provide a way to keep active in a professional area when paid employment is not a possibility. Information about volunteer opportunities is available from the HIO. You may also consult the web site. Find Volunteer Matches For a list of Boston opportunities, click here. Harvard Neighbors International Group Become a member of Harvard Neighbors’ International Group and enjoy cultural events, area tours, informative discussion panels, and social activities; designed to foster community connections, friendships, and cultural exchange while at Harvard. See what is happening now at neighbors.harvard.edu/calendar. Resources for Families Harvard Childcare Resources It is so important to get your family all set before school gets underway, because you’ll find your disposable time disappearing quickly. Explore the extensive Harvard-Wide resource page for childcare at hr.harvard.edu/childcare. Private Lactation Spaces at Harvard CGIS/Knafel Building Lactation Room The closest full-service lactation room for GSD students is next door in the CGIS/Knafel Building, accessible through the GSD basement tunnel. The room is equipped with one Medela Symphony pump and one Medela Lactina pump. Contact Bettina Burch for information about reservations. 1737 Cambridge Street Bettina Burch bburch@fas.harvard.edu 617-495-9114 Campus-Wide Lactation Room locations https://hr.harvard.edu/lactation-support GSD Quiet Room In addition to the fully-equipped spaces, all GSD mothers have access to the GSD Quiet Space in 7 Sumner by reservation. 7 Sumner, 104b gsd.harvard.edu/quiet-room/ Child Care Choices of Boston Child Care Choices of Boston offers a comprehensive listing of caregivers and day care centers in the area. Phone: (617) 542-5437 (KIDS) childcarechoicesofboston.org NAEYC National Association for the Education of Young Children, based in Washington, D.C., reviews preschools. Preschools that receive a stamp of approval have to have a high-quality curriculum. The group also judges the schools’ health and safety, teacher-student ratios, physical environment and a child’s experience. Go the the url, and enter your zip code to find out which schools in your area are accredited. Toll free: 800-424-2460 Phone: 202-232-8777 www.naeyc.org Department of Early Education and Care The Department of Early Education and Care provides a list of licensed daycare centers and care providers. www.mass.gov/edu/government/departments-and-boards/department-of-early-education-and-care Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education The Massachusetts Department of Education provides standardized school profiles of private and public schools. profiles.doe.mass.edu Harvard Office of Work/Life Resources Students may contact Harvard’s Office of Work/Life Resources for information about child care and education. The Office provides information about the Harvard-affiliated child care centers as well as community day care centers and nursery schools, information on local school districts, after school programs, summer camps and school vacation programs. Office of Work/Life Resources phone: (617) 495-4100 email: worklife@harvard.edu https://hr.harvard.edu/office-worklife Family resources outside of Harvard The City of Cambridge Department of Human Services provides information on programs and activities for families, adults, kids, and youth. Department of Human Service Program Office 51 Inman Street, Cambridge Phone: (617) 349-6200 www.cambridgema.gov/DHSP.aspx Activities to Do with Children Museum Passes Public libraries have free or reduced price admission passes for popular museums and events such as the Science Museum, the Children’s Museum, the New England Aquarium, Drumlin Farms in Lincoln and some zoos. Check with your local library branch. Passes are popular so plan ahead. Museum passes with Cambridge Public Library. Children’s Museum Visit the Children’s Museum’s child-centered exhibits, and take part in programs and activities for endless fun and learning. Be aware, the museum is very crowded on the weekends. 308 Congress St., Boston Phone: (617) 426-6500 www.bostonchildrensmuseum.org Museum of Science Located just outside of Cambridge, the Boston Museum of Science features exhibits that appeal to many different age groups. Don’t miss the new Hall of Human Life interactive exhibit. The youngest visitors will have the most fun in the Discovery Center past the café on the first floor. Also, check the calendar for daily live animal shows. 1 Science Park, Boston (617) 723-2500 information@mos.org www.mos.org The Institute of Contemporary Art Monthly Play Dates and Family Art-Making events inspired a writer at the Boston Globe to call the ICA “one of the most family-friendly, kid-friendly, down-to-earth museums in Boston.” Check the website for the calendar of events. 100 Northern Ave, South Boston Waterfront (617) 478-3100 icaboston.org/kids-families New England Aquarium With its winding hallways, and dark corners, the aquarium can be a bit overwhelming with very young children, but it’s great for those 4 and up. The new Ray and Shark touch tank is very popular with kids. Arrive early to find a metered spot on the street if you are travelling by car, because parking in a garage is extremely pricey. Taking the T is a good option for getting to the Aquarium. Check the calendar for daily scheduled programs and feedings. 1 Central Wharf, Boston (617) 973-5206 www.neaq.org LEGOLAND Discovery Center Boston LEGOLAND is open in North Somerville. Designed for ages 3-10 years. Check the website for more information. 598 Assembly Row, Somerville Phone: (866) 228-6439 Boston@LEGOLANDDiscoveryCenter.com legolanddiscoverycenter.com/boston/ Zoo New England Accessible by bus and car, the Franklin Park Zoo has indoor and outdoor exhibits and a year-round cafe. Unfortunately, some of the exhibits are in a state of disrepair, but the zoo is slowly making improvements. The zoo is now home to an expansive playground that it is almost impossible to pull children away from on a nice day. The seasonal butterfly garden is also quite beautiful. Be prepared to walk a bit when visiting this zoo, which is the larger of the two area zoos. One Franklin Park Road, Boston (617) 541-5466 www.franklinparkzoo.org Stone Zoo A short drive up 93N, the Stone Zoo has a wonderful festival of lights around the holiday season, called “Zoo Lights.” It’s a tiny zoo, but the little ones love it, and it is rarely crowded. There is an indoor Discovery Center with daily activities planned for young children, which is a great resource during the winter months. The snack bar is only open seasonally, so plan ahead. 149 Pond Street, Stoneham 781-438-5100 www.stonezoo.org Getting Outside in the City Cambridge Parks cambridgema.gov/cdd/parks/parksmap.aspx Parks with Water Features cambridgema.gov/CDD/parks/waterplaymap.aspx Getting Out of the City Drumlin Farm Mass Audubon Society has a number of locations with family-friendly programs. The most conveniently located to the GSD is Habitat in Belmont, and a popular location with families is Drumlin Farm in Lincoln. 208 South Great Road, Lincoln (781) 259-2200 massaudubon.org/get-outdoors/wildlife-sanctuaries/drumlin-farm/ Habitat 10 Juniper Road, Belmont (617) 489-5050 massaudubon.org/get-outdoors/wildlife-sanctuaries/habitat Friends of the Middlesex Fells Reservation Friends of the Fells runs a few programs that encourage families with young children to get outside as well. A hike for new parents, Babes in the Woods, meets at a different location each week on Tuesdays, and sometimes on Thursdays. The monthly event, Animal Habitats, led by a Zoo New is appropriate for families with children who are able to walk. Check the website for locations and times. 235 West Foster Street, Melrose (781) 662-2340 www.fells.org Indoor Activities for Families Cambridge Public Library The Cambridge Public library is a great resource for parents of young children. The third floor of the award-winning main branch building houses a children’s room designed for those 13 and under, and their caregivers. The various library branches offer music and story programs for infants, toddlers, and preschoolers as well as programs for parents and caregivers. Check out the Calendar of Events here. Main Branch: 449 Broadway, Cambridge (617) 349-4038 http://www.cambridgema.gov/cpl/Kids.aspx Imagine Imagine is a drop-in play space with a kitchenette and an art room open seven days a week. The busiest times are after school hours on cold or wet days. Parking is limited. Easily accessible by bus from Harvard Square, and is a short walk from Alewife station on the Redline. 23 Baystate Road, Fresh Pond (617) 661-0077 imaginecambridge.com Belmont KidSpace Belmont KidSpace is a non-profit, parent-run, cooperative, indoor play space in Belmont, MA open to families with babies, toddlers, and preschoolers during the colder months. 365 Belmont Street, Belmont http://www.belmontkidspace.org/ Info@BelmontKidspace.org Drop-in Art Centers Mucky Kids In addition to the drop-in times available Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, Mucky Kids art studio offers classes, parties, and a summer program. Check the website for a description of the weekly activities offered. 1776 Mass Ave, Cambridge (617) 354-0540 www.muckykids.com Maud Morgan Arts Center Children, teens, and established and emerging artists of all ages and all levels create, teach, exhibit, and collaborate at Maud Morgan Arts. All who value the visual arts — young and old, beginner and professional — can choose from a wide range of innovative and imaginative visual art classes and programs. 20A Sacramento St, Cambridge (617) 349-6287 http://www.maudmorganarts.org/about-us/about-maud-morgan-arts/ Parent Support and Playgroups JC&FS Cambridge New Parent Support Group These groups (open to new moms and dads) are sponsored by the JC&FS. No religious affiliation required to attend. The Cambridge group meets online on Thursdays, 10:00 – 11:30am (during COVID). Check out their programs and groups: https://www.jfcsboston.org/Our-Services/Upcoming-Programs-and-Groups Cambridge Center for Families (CFF) Information, support, and activities for Cambridge families of children ages 0-8. All programs, playgroups, events, and workshops offered by CFF are free. The CFF staff speaks a total of ten languages in addition to English. For more information on this wonderful resource available to Cambridge residents contact them directly. 70 Rindge Ave, Cambridge Phone: (617) 349-6385 Email: centerforfamilies@cambridgema.gov www.cambridgema.gov/dhsp/cff Online Resources for Parents Families interested in Cambridge Public Schools may want to join the CPS Parents list. The CPS Parents list discussions are focused on issues that affect the Cambridge Public Schools but that are not school specific. The list also serves as a forum for exchanging information across the various Cambridge Public Schools. CPS Parents https://cpsparents.groups.io/g/main Family Friendly Theatres Baby-Friendly Movies A baby-friendly movie is a movie for parents to enjoy while they care for their babies. The lights are kept up higher to make caring for the baby easier, and the volume is lower so as not to frighten (or wake) the babies. Not to worry about your little one making noise – as they say, “babies are free to be babies during the show.” All theaters listed have ample stroller parking available as well as changing stations in their restrooms. Capitol Theatre & Creamery The Capitol Theatre features a baby-friendly movie every Monday afternoon. Check the Monday schedule to see what’s playing. 204 Mass Ave, Arlington 781-648-4340 http://feitheatres.com/capitol-theatre/movies/ Coolidge Corner Theater New parents and their infants are invited to special bi-monthly, baby-friendly screenings of current features on the giant screen at the Coolidge Corner Theater. All Box Office Babies screenings take place every other Friday at 11am in the gorgeous main theater on the first floor. 290 Harvard Street, Brookline 617–734–2500/2501 http://www.coolidge.org/programs/box-office-babies International Spouses, Partners, and Children International students should visit the Spouses, Partners, and Children section of the Harvard International Office(HIO) website to find out about its programs and resources for families. Harvard International Office (617) 495-2789 https://www.hio.harvard.edu/spouses-partners-children English Classes The HIO has a compiled a flyer listing three different types of organizations that offer English classes in the Boston/Cambridge area. HIO English classes flyer Prev Next Close Slideshow Back to top Harvard University Graduate School of Design © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Privacy Accessibility Digital Accessibility Maps Contact COVID-19 GSD API Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, exhibitions, and more. Email* Δ Version 1.11.26