Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Meet Princeton People Are at the Heart of Princeton Princeton is about people. Our University is enriched by the wide range of experiences and perspectives of our students, faculty, staff and alumni. In Service of Humanity Princeton University is a vibrant community of scholarship and learning that stands in the nation's service and the service of humanity. On campus and around the world, Princetonians are making a difference in society. Learn More Our People Award World Series of Birding title goes to a Princeton student team . The Princeton Tiger Shrikes started the competition in the pre-dawn hours at a marsh near the New York border and finished at the Cape May shore, tallying 205 species. Read more Princeton marks more than 50 years of kosher dining on campus . In 1971, Princeton was one of a few schools in the country to open a university-sponsored kosher kitchen on campus. Today, the Center for Jewish Life's dining hall is a popular campus spot for students from all backgrounds. Read more After Princeton graduation, ROTC students are commissioned as U.S. Army and Marine Corps officers . Sixteen members of Princeton’s Class of 2022 became commissioned officers in the U.S. Army and Marine Corps on May 24 during a ceremony led by Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley, Class of 1980. Read more ‘The value of persistence’: Princeton Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement . The University awarded 1,234 undergraduate degrees and 655 graduate degrees during a Commencement ceremony held in Princeton Stadium on Tuesday, May 24. Read more Facts & Figures 5,267 Undergraduate enrollment 2,946 Graduate enrollment 1,289 Faculty, including full time, part time and visiting $56,500 Average annual grant for the Class of 2023 61% Undergraduate students who receive financial aid Show Me More Facts and Figures Our Faculty Princeton's faculty are world-renowned scholars and teachers inspired by their research and driven to help all students grow as thinkers. Learn more about our faculty and their commitment to Princeton's dynamic intellectual environment. Learn More Our Students Our students come from across the country and around the world, and they join the University community eager to learn and excited to open doors to discovery. Each student's story joins those of their peers, weaving the tale of an unforgettable Princeton journey. Learn More Our Alumni Princeton alumni are well-known for their Tiger spirit. Our students stay connected to Princeton long after graduating, drawn back to campus for alumni events and celebrations. They are leaders and mentors who make their marks through work and service worldwide. Learn More Our Staff Every member of Princeton's community plays an important role in our mission of teaching and research. Staff members have the opportunity to engage in a work environment that values connection and community and making an impact bigger than oneself. Learn More Our Leadership Princeton is led by Christopher L. Eisgruber, a constitutional scholar who became our 20th president in 2013. The trustees are responsible for the overall direction of the University. Our academic officers and officers of the corporation oversee various aspects of University governance. Learn More Contact Us Learn More Princeton's History 1746 College of New Jersey founded in Elizabeth, New Jersey, by the Presbyterian Synod 1896 Name officially changed to Princeton University 1900 Graduate School established 1969 Trustees vote to admit women undergraduates 2001 Financial aid policy changes, replacing loans with grants that do not need to be repaid See All Milestones Visit Us A visit to our beautiful campus will give you a good idea of what Princeton has to offer. Tours and information session are available throughout the year. A virtual tour also can serve as your guide. Directions Maps Tours & Information Sessions Town & Region Meet Princeton In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice