Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Literary Arts Program Literary Arts Courses Literary Arts Courses Literary Arts offers a mixture of workshops, seminars and hybrid workshop/seminar courses each semester, many of which are special topics (and are subject to change from one semester to the next). Please refer to the University's online course listings for up-to-date information about our classes. When navigating this site, our four-letter code (for title/tag/subject area) is LITR. For Undergraduate Students at Brown and RISD interested in taking First Year Seminars: (LITR 100A, Introduction to Fiction; LITR 100B, Introduction to Poetry; LITR 710, Writers on Writing: Incoming first-year undergraduate students will share preferences with the Registrar over the summer. Registration (permission to register) for First Year Seminars will be determined by the Registrar's Office. On the first day of the fall semester (7 September) the Literary Arts department will conduct a supplemental lottery to create wait lists for these courses. Learn how you can take part in these lotteries. Undergraduate students at Brown and RISD interested in taking all other introductory workshops: LITR 110A (Fiction), LITR 110B (Poetry), LITR 110E (Screenwriting) and LITR 110H (Digital/Cross-Disciplinary) are for all undergraduate students. Many of these will have further enrollment restrictions during the registration period. On the first day of the fall semester (7 September) the Literary Arts department will conduct a supplemental lottery to create wait lists for these courses. Learn how you can take part in these lotteries. For undergraduates at Brown and RISD interested in taking intermediate workshops: A limited number of Literary Arts concentrators may register for LITR 210A (Fiction II) and LITR 210B (Poetry II) during the registration period. All Brown and RISD undergraduate students (regardless of concentration) are welcome to apply for the rest of the spaces in these workshops along with all spots in any LITR 310 (special topics workshops); these spaces will be filled in September based on the submission of writing samples.Writing samples are due between 2 September and by 5 pm EST on Wednesday, 7 September. For undergraduate and graduate students at Brown and RISD interested in taking advanced workshops and special topics workshops (LITR 1010A, Advanced Fiction; LITR 1010B, Advanced Poetry; LITR 1010E, Advanced Screenwriting; LITR 1010H, Advanced Digital/Cross-Discliplinar; LITR 1010N, Workshop for Potential Literature; Script to Screen: Writing samples are due between 5 September and by 5 pm EST on Wednesday, 7 September. One other course for Undergraduates: 1200 (Writers On Writing): This section will be filled through open enrollment during the registration period. On the first day of the semester (8 September) the Literary Arts department will conduct a supplemental lottery to create a wait list. Learn how you can take part in the lottery. Classes not listed here are offered for particular Literary Arts honors candidates or MFA candidates and those students have been contacted about these classes directly. Home Black Lives Matter Events COVID-19 News People Directory & Office Hours Graduate Program Undergraduate Program Writing Samples, Fall 2022 Courses Courses: FAQs Waiting List Details Diversity, Inclusion & Equity Writers Online Literary Arts Community Alumni Notable Links Literary Arts Prizes Prize and Premiums, Spring 2022 Print this Page Share this Page Literary Arts Brown University Box 1923 68.5 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3260 Fax 401-863-1535 [email protected] In Literary Arts There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Highlighted Sites Events & News IWP @ Brown Writers Online Graduate School Find Us 68 1/2 Brown Street Follow us on Facebook