Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Journalism and Strategic Media About B.A. Program M.A. Program People Syllabi Student Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact M.A. Program M.A. Program Courses M.A. Program Emphases Integrated Strategic MediaNews and StorytellingVisual MediaMass Media Research M.A. Capstone Information Graduate Certificate JRSM Graduate Certificates Entrepreneurial Journalism Multimedia Storytelling Social Media Analysis and Strategy Graduate Handbook Tentative Schedule How to Apply Take Action Apply to our Undergraduate Program Apply to our Master's Program Contact Us AEJMC 2022 Southeast Colloquium Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home JRSM M.A. Program Graduate Certificate in Entrepreneurial Journalism Graduate Certificate in Entrepreneurial Journalism The Graduate Certificate in Entrepreneurial Journalism program prepares students to start their own media-related businesses or bring innovation to legacy media organizations. It emphasizes knowledge of business fundamentals, marketing, advertising and public relations strategies for new businesses and creating digital, multimedia content for media products or promotions. Objectives of this program include: To prepare students for today's media landscape, which is undergoing unprecedented disruption as new digital technologies and changing economic realities have upended the practices and the business models of traditional media organizations. Students need to be able to understand this upheaval and be equipped to recognize opportunities for new businesses and ways traditional organizations can evolve to meet evolving demands. To equip students with the skills they need not only to start their own media-related businesses but also to work as "intrapreneurs" within existing companies and to initiate and sustain change initiatives. They will learn startup fundamentals such as how to turn ideas into business plans, assess customer needs, pitch investors and develop marketing, public relations and advertising strategies. To help students hone their abilities to use social media and a variety of cutting-edge digital tools necessary to market and create content for new media businesses. Requirements The graduate certificate in Entrepreneurial Journalism requires 12 credit hours. Students are required to take JRSM 7100 Entrepreneurial Media (3 hours) and JRSM 7330 Social Media and Community Engagement (3 hours), and to select six credit hours of electives from the following: ACCT 7412 Legal/Accounting Aspects of Entrepreneurship (3 hours) FIR 7648 Evaluating/Finance New Projects (3 hours) MGMT 7270 Venture/Bldg/Sustaining a Successful Enterp (3 hours) UNIV 7110 Launch Memphis 48-Hour Launch (2 hours) UNIV 7110 LaunchMemphis BarCamp, SocialCamp, MobileCamp (2 hours) UNIV 7110 Business Plan Boot Camp (1 hour) UNIV 7110 Launch Memphis ad hoc mentoring (3 hours) JRSM 7350 Advanced Multi Media Reporting (3 hours) JRSM 7410 Advanced Crisis Communication (3 hours) JRSM 7412 Analytics and Evaluation (3 hours) JRSM 7414 Audience Analysis&Segmentation (3 hours) JRSM 7422 Writing for Strategic Media (3 hours) JRSM 7510 Information Design (3 hours) JRSM 7650 Startup Journalism Practicum (3 hours) How to apply Applicants for the entrepreneurial certificate program must satisfy all the requirements of the University Graduate School as set out in the Graduate Bulletin. The Graduate School collects your application, transcripts, goal statement and resume, and when complete, forwards them to the Department of Journalism and Strategic Media to consider for admission to the journalism certificate program. All other admissions requirements are the same as for the regular program (see above). Continuing beyond the certificate All of the classes taken in the certificate program will count toward your Master's degree if you are admitted to the Department of Journalism and Strategic Media's master's degree program. You will have up to eight years to complete the program. The time starts the semester that you take your first graduate course. SmartAdBlock blocked it. Not a popup? Click here to follow this link. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/9/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.