Skip To Top Navigation Skip To Main Content Skip To Footer search Loading... Careers Ask-HR Current Employees Search Menu Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Careers AskHR Current Employees HR Self Service Kronos Login COVID-19 Resources Employee Assistance Program Benefits and Well-being Tigers at Work Payroll Training and Development Performance Management Staff and Faculty Relations Transition and Separation International Employment Talent Acquisition Employment Verification HR Resource Library HR Policies and Procedures HR Service Teams Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Clemson University Talent and Organizational Development Inspiring growth. Developing talent. Cultivating change. Supervisor Training Staff Performance Scroll Welcome! The Talent and Organization Development team creates programs, initiatives and opportunities that inspire and nurture employees to be more for themselves and the university through: Sustainable learning and development solutions, Quality performance management processes and resources, and Catered programs to meet organizational development needs. View Upcoming Events Employee Spotlight "The objectives of the courses were clear and I really appreciated that different learning styles were accommodated…I honestly recommend the training series to every supervisor on campus!" ~ Fredda Owens , Clemson University Libraries "I have enjoyed this series tremendously. This training provides actionable items that all managers are required to know and use. The plus to all of the training is meeting the support staff of HR. They each have areas they support and it is so helpful to have them shed light on what issues they deal with and how to approach solutions." ~ Laura McGinnis , Clemson Computing and Information and Technology (CCIT) "Thank you for providing us with additional tools for our supervisory belt. I’ve made several changes to my methods based upon what I learned through these sessions. But, as much as I learned in the trainings, for me it’s more about the relationships made and the experiences shared. Thanks for giving me the opportunity to learn and for expanding my Clemson experience." ~ Rick Kelley , Clemson University Youth Learning Institute "Participation in the Supervisor Training series offered by the Clemson University Office of Human Resources should be required of all employees operating in a supervisory capacity in any division or department of the University. Insights garnered through participation in the series have inevitably made me a better manager of the people and circumstances that I engage with daily on behalf of Clemson Cooperative Extension." ~ Blake Lanford , Clemson University Cooperative Extension "The supervisor training series has been a valuable resource for me as I transition into a supervisory role. When a new training session date approaches I am always excited knowing that I will be gaining valuable knowledge in a new area. The facilitators and presenters are knowledgeable and do a great job keeping the sessions interesting and informative." ~ Cyndi Ragusa , College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Business Office "The Supervisor Training series is a thoughtful collection of topics that provides a broader understanding of the principles of management. Not only is the training beneficial for learning, the networking opportunity and role-playing scenarios are both excellent ways to connect with peers across campus to learn new techniques for resolving age old challenges!" ~ Jacquelyn Ansley , Clemson Computing and Information Technology (CCIT) "Every supervisor should attend these training sessions…The focus is on providing tools, ideas and resources that you can leverage immediately to be a more effective supervisor. These sessions are also a great opportunity to meet and interact with other supervisors across the University, and to share with and mentor each other on how to navigate and resolve the problems all of us face in our quest to be, and to develop, top talent." ~ Ralph Goodberlet , CCIT IDeA (Infrastructure Development & Architecture) Employee Development Supervisory Development Performance Management Organizational Development Team Training Employee Development The talent and organizational development team is dedicated to helping employees develop both personally and professionally. Our team delivers a range of solutions, from instructor-led development courses to self-paced eLearning and individualized development plans, that positively impact organizational effectiveness in relation to productivity, job satisfaction, and personal fulfillment. Employee Development CU Grow CU Grow provides a framework to support the personal and professional growth of Clemson University staff in full-time positions. Through workshops and training, skills development, experiential learning and volunteer service, CU Grow makes transformational change possible. Access CU Grow Supervisor Development The talent and organizational development team is committed to assisting Clemson University supervisors excel in their supervisory roles. Our team offers a variety of supervisory development opportunities to support supervisors in selecting, developing and managing the university's workforce. Supervisor Toolkit New Supervisor Resources Here are quick links to information that will help you get started in your new journey as a supervisor at Clemson University. Sign-Up for New Faculty and Staff Orientation or view Recorded Session* New Supervisor Orientation Online Course New Employee Resources Time and Leave Information Kronos Training Supervisor Training From the date of hire or promotion, each new supervisor of staff will have 30 days to complete two short, self-paced online training modules and one year to complete seven instructor-led courses. We will offer multiple sessions per course to allow participants greater opportunity and flexibility. The Tiger Training System will automatically enroll each new supervisor and provide links for session sign-up and ongoing reminders. Each semester, the Office of Human Resources hosts instructor-led training courses designed specifically for the University’s supervisors. These sessions will provide University supervisors with the necessary knowledge, skills and behaviors that will allow them to excel in their current roles. If not required by policy, participation is encouraged throughout the State, therefore video-conferencing technologies are available for all sessions Check out more details and register for classes. Online Learning Opportunities Percipio: Self-paced, free e-learning courses made available by CCIT Tiger Training Learning Library: Optional, development-based learning opportunities available to supervisors and employees Performance Management Clemson University full-time equivalent staff participate in the annual staff performance management process. During this process, managers work with employees to set yearly goals, clarify expectations, express development opportunities and feedback regarding the performance year. The goal of performance management is to help employees and Clemson maximize performance potential — and to engage managers in the success and growth of every employee. Our team partners with Staff and Faculty Relations to help managers and employees understand performance management and expectations of the process here at the university. Performance Management FAQ's Organizational Development The Talent and Organizational Development team offers a full range of classes, workshops, program development and consulting services. Our goal is to help your team maximize their potential while navigating growth and change through the use of strategic organizational development methodology and practices. These services include: Retreat/Meeting Facilitation Teambuilding and Team Development 360 Feedback Personality Type Assessments HR-related Workshops Team Performance Coaching Employee/Customer Surveys Competency Mapping Succession Planning Strategic Planning Contact Us Team Training Talent and Organizational Development offers a variety of customizable courses for you and your team. Courses are available as webinars or as in-person, instructor-led sessions. To request a training consultation, please complete and submit our Training Request Form. Pricing and scheduling availability will be determined upon our receipt of the form. Please submit the training request 3-4 weeks in advance of your desired training date. Soft Skill Trainings Managing a multi-generational workforce StrengthsFinder Handling Difficult Conversations Motivating and Developing your Team Professionalism and Communication Time Management Building an Effective Team Interviewing Tips Technical Trainings Performance Planning Performance Evaluations Monitoring Performance and Providing Feedback Email and Phone Customer Service Tips Strategic Goal Planning Writing Position Descriptions Managing Performance Concerns Discipline and Misconduct For more training offerings, please visit the Tiger Training Learning Library. Tiger Training University Training Management System Need Help? Ready. Set. Learn! Upcoming Supervisor Training Schedule Buddy to Boss Have you recently transitioned from a peer to the supervisor of your team? Buddy to Boss is an interactive, in-person training for individuals navigating the transition from peer to supervisor. This training will increase your ability to confidently lead your team through the transition by equipping you with effective tools, skills, and strategies that address common transition challenges. Fall 2022 Session Tuesday, September 27, 2022 Register for a Session Building an Effective Team This course will provide supervisors with more information on skills, tools and techniques to be an effective team leader and member through communication, collaboration and performance. Fall 2022 Session Tuesday, October 11, 2022 Register for a Session Championing the Staff Performance Management Process Included in required supervisor training series This course discusses the performance management process including coaching, feedback, goal setting and communication. Fall 2022 Sessions Thursday, August 11, 2022 Thursday, September 22, 2022 Thursday, October 27, 2022 Register for a Session Difficult Conversations Included in required supervisor training series This course will aid supervisors in understanding the importance of conflict resolution as well as how to plan for and to have difficult conversations. Fall 2022 Sessions Wednesday, September 7, 2022 Tuesday, October 25, 2022 Thursday, November 10, 2022 Register for a Session Effective Interviewing This course is for supervisors only. This class discusses proper interviewing techniques including interview questions types, details on what you can and cannot ask prospective candidates and provides tips and resources available to supervisors. Fall 2022 Sessions Tuesday, August 23, 2022 Wednesday, September 28, 2022 Wednesday, November 2, 2022 Register for a Session Employment Law and Policy Included in required supervisor training series Supervisors have a unique and complex role in managing staff's daily work and ensuring compliance with all laws and policies. This course instructs supervisors on their key roles and responsibilities in upholding all employment laws and University policies. Throughout the course, you will learn of the resources and support available to you in making important employment decisions. Fall 2022 Sessions Tuesday, August 30, 2022 Thursday, September 29, 2022 Friday, October 21, 2022 Register for a Session Encouraging and Growing Civility in the Workplace Included in required supervisor training series One Clemson: Equitable Treatment and Civility in the Workplace is a professional development program that provides a comprehensive approach to fair employment practices designed to help supervisors learn to deal constructively with workplace issues and relationships on the job. It provides an interactive, skills-based approach to learning that will help to ensure that decision-making is done in a legal, fair, and reflective manner based on the University’s policies and procedures. The program also emphasizes the responsibility each member must create the healthy workplace environment necessary to reach organizational goals. Fall 2022 Sessions Tuesday, September 13, 2022 Thursday, October 6, 2022 Thursday, November 3, 2022 Register for a Session Implicit Bias at Work Included in required supervisor training series This course will aid supervisors in understanding implicit bias and provide ten practical strategies to create a work environment that fosters inclusion. Fall 2022 Sessions Friday, September 16, 2022 Wednesday, October 19, 2022 Wednesday, November 9, 2022 Register for a Session Managing Performance Concerns and Misconduct Included in required supervisor training series This course outlines the supervisor’s role in the discipline and performance management processes. This interactive course provides a detailed explanation of what actionable steps may be taken by a supervisor to address issues that arise when employees fall short of expected conduct and/or performance. Fall 2022 Sessions Friday, September 9, 2022 Wednesday, October 5, 2022 Thursday, November 17, 2022 Register for a Session Standards of Ethical Conduct Included in required supervisor training series As members of the Clemson University community, all faculty, staff, students, administration, members of the Board of Trustees, and affiliates are responsible for sustaining the highest ethical standards and complying with all applicable legal obligations in our decisions and actions. As a supervisor, you must adhere to these standards and are responsible for informing and coaching your staff on ethical decisions and actions during the course of their work. This course will review the ethical standards and their application in the workplace. Fall 2022 Sessions Thursday, September 15, 2022 Friday, October 14, 2022 Monday, November 14, 2022 Register for a Session Job Aids for HR Processes View our quick reference guides on HR processes for department admins, managers, and more. My Learning Assignments Access your required and optional learning assignments on the Tiger Training My Learning page. FAQs Need help? Here’s a list of our frequently asked questions and answers. University Training Offerings Check out other learning and development offerings provided by the University. Ask-HR Get in touch with a Human Resources professional for additional assistance. Michelle Cato Director micato@clemson.edu Phone: 864.656.3360 Jaz Hamilton tammih@clemson.edu Phone: 864.656.9755 Elizabeth Hart hart@clemson.edu Phone: 864.656.0102 Mary-Kate Tilley marykat@clemson.edu Phone: 864.656.3506 Liz Whaley ewhale2@clemson.edu Phone: 864.656.2726 Inspiring growth, developing talent and cultivating change for individual and organizational excellence within Clemson’s workforce. When you’re ready to take the leap, give us a call. Contact Us CLEMSON HR Administrative Services Building 108 Perimeter Road Clemson, SC 29634-5337 864.656.2000 RESOURCES Careers Benefits Forms Training Security and Safety Report Quick Links Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Contact HR Clemson, SC Ask-HR Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Copyright © Clemson University. All rights reserved. Clemson University is an AA/EEO employer. Scroll To Top