Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Computer Information Systems (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Students who take on the challenge of a Bachelor of Science in computer information systems know the importance of computer systems in both multinational and local business. From the home to the workplace to the local coffee shop, computers permeate nearly every minute and every aspect of our lives. At Clemson we embrace this, and our computing facilities are available to you 24/7 as you learn how to design and build software and discover new ways to use computers. A focus on business classes will expand your understanding of computer science and the business problem environment, which is key in preparing you for a job after graduation and advanced studies in areas of computer science. FAST FACTS According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, employment in computer and mathematical occupations is expected to grow by 18 percent between 2012 and 2022. You'll have 24-hour access to school facilities such as workstations, graphics systems, virtual reality systems, network labs and computer clusters. The Palmetto Cluster is one of the largest supercomputers in the country and ranks fourth among U.S. academic systems on the Top500 list. It received a $1 million upgrade in 2018. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Combine the technical side of computer science with business problems theory and application, and you have our computer information systems major. To prepare for a career in this field, you'll take computer science courses in addition to business classes that will help you understand how the two fields interact. As a freshman, you'll take introductory computer science classes before delving more deeply into the technical aspects of the computer with classes such as algorithms and data structures, software development foundations and network programming. At the same time, your business classes will focus on marketing, management, accounting, finance and microeconomics. Curriculum Computer Information Systems, B.S. Similar Majors Computer Science (B.S./B.A.) Management (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Dive into your major outside your standard classes, and meet and network with fellow students and working professionals. As a computer information systems major you'll have great chances to research alongside your classmates as well as our nationally known faculty. Co-op Put your classwork knowledge to work by spending alternate semesters working in the industry and studying on campus as part of Clemson's cooperative education program. Learn More » Honors Upsilon Pi Epsilon (UPE) is an internationally renowned honors society that offers scholarship opportunities, promotes fellowship and recognizes the academic excellence of outstanding students within the computing and information disciplines. Join in Clemson's student Association of Computing Machinery (ACM) chapter connects students with one another and professionals already in the field. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS CU Cyber PEER WISE AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Network Security Analyst Boeing Systems Engineer Amazon Web Services Consultant Capgemini Cloud Architecture Field Developer SYNNEX Data Analyst Buffalo Bills RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.S. Computer Science Clemson University M.S. Information Science University of Michigan COMMON CAREER AREAS Network Administration Intranet or Internet Development Maintenance Security Support Hardware and Software Design Database Administration Development Testing Maintenance and Support Archiving and Security Systems Integration Management Web Administration Website Programming and Development Management System Administration System Analysis Systems Development Planning and Analysis Design Building and Coding Integration and Testing Operations and Maintenance Project Management Technical Support Hardware, Software, Systems Support System Oversight and Evaluation Training Technical Writing Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Christopher Porter CECAS Undergraduate Recruitment Director 864-656-7870 cporter@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Computer Information Systems (B.S.) Computer Science (B.S./B.A.) Management (B.S.)