Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For New Faculty & Staff New Students Visitors Search BC.edu Links ITS Menu Main Nav ITS Need Technology Help? Back Back Close About Overview Office of the CIO Departments Current Projects EagleApps Sustainability Student Employees Key Partners & Events Services Overview Audio, Video, Graphics & Photography Newton Campus Classroom & Event Technology Backup Classroom Technology Hardware Repair Mobile & Web App Publishing Research Services Research Software Research Tutorials Linux Cluster Center for Statistics and Advanced Analysis Training Instructor-led Training (including AEM) Self-paced Learning EagleTech Events Student Tech Tips University Tech Acquisition Support Overview Account & Network Access Account Basics Agora Portal Connect to the Internet Printing VPN Trouble Accessing a Secure Message From UHS? Communication & Collaboration Calendar Create & Share Files Email Email Security Group Email & Lists Phone & Conference Calling Teach, Learn & Work Off Campus Video Conferencing Voicemail Web Publishing Teaching & Learning Security BC 2-Step Verification Encryption Virus Protection (Sophos) Software & Hardware BC Apps (Application Server) BCCR (BC Computer Replacement Program) Operating Systems & Mobile Devices Software Downloads Techcycle Program Find Your Tech Consultant Athletics Brighton Campus: Ahmed Naim Campion: Bill Dahlberg & Mo Karachi Financial Vice President: Mika Whang Fulton: Jason Caira Graduate School of Social Work: Dan Bairos Student Services: Laura Brainard Humanities: Paul Emery & Fawyn Herd Human Resources McGuinn Hall: Bob McColgan Lower Campus Arts & Sciences: Ken Porter St. Clements, South: David Sangurima University Libraries: Gary Seto & Joe Hickey Nursing: Thomas Wahhab Recreation, Administration & ITS: Brian Walsh Sciences: Howard White & Chris Cardoso Student Affairs: Ryan Yung University Advancement: Doug Ballas Law School: Kristen Pickwick, Tiffany Bradford & Tuananh "Mo" Truong Related Links Leaving BC Travel Support Need Technology Help? Close Directory A to Z Listing ITS Help Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give New Faculty & Staff New Students Visitors BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Student Employees Home About Student Employees About Office of the CIO Departments Current Projects Sustainability Student Employees Key Partners & Events The mission of the EagleTech program is to offer the Boston College student community superior technical support and education with an emphasis on customer service and professionalism. Apply to the EagleTech Program Please email the EagleTech Supervisors with questions. Program Description EagleTech is the major student employment program within Boston College Information Technology Services. EagleTech currently employs up to 60 students working across different departments. All EagleTech Student Technology Specialists take an active role in learning about technology and its place at Boston College while providing important computer and networking support to the student community. In addition to work within various Information Technology Services departments, Student Technology Specialists are dedicated to educating the Boston College student community about technology through special events and various media venues such as video. EagleTech has a strong presence during the Back to School Week assisting new students with technology needs. To achieve a superior knowledge of technology and level of service, EagleTech Student Technology Specialists are required to attend Summer Orientation in late August, work on Freshman Move-In Day and monthly trainings during the academic year. Base pay for EagleTech Student Technology Specialists is $14.25 per hour. The possibility of increased pay and job responsibility is tied to performance. Student Technology Specialists are paid for all required training, departmental work, and educational events. Departments ITS Tech Desk EagleTech Student Technology Specialists assist users with any computer problems that arise while working in the technology center. We also provide support for the scanners and printers in the center. Additionally, we are available to assist users with the many applications provided on the library public computers. Walk-In Help Desk EagleTech Student Technology Specialists help other Boston College students with their computer problems. The most common issues we work with are related to networking, software, viruses and spyware, and system configuration. Training & Communications EagleTech Student Technology Specialists create training programs for the Boston College student community with topics ranging from Microsoft Office to more advanced design applications. We also aid professional full-time staff members in setting up training presentations for faculty and staff, creating email communications to the entire Boston College community, and developing marketing efforts about technology on campus. Technology Consultants EagleTech Student Technology Specialists assist full-time professional Technology Consultant staff members in supporting the technology needs of faculty and staff by providing local technology support. Technology Consultants provide a wide range of services around campus including software installation and desktop troubleshooting. Student Technology Specialist Application Boston College Information Technology Services is seeking capable and friendly students with a genuine commitment to learning about technology and sharing their knowledge with the student community. Commitment, dependability, and a willingness to learn and attend various training events are mandatory. Previous technical knowledge and proficiency is a plus. Quick Links Security Alerts & Tips Get Connected Canvas Agora Portal Back To Top Back To Top Information Technology Services 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4357 About Services Support Get in Touch help@bc.edu 617-552-4357 Live chat Walk-In Help Desk Request Tech Support Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College