Jump to navigation Support Lamont Research Main menu Research Education News & Events People Marine Ops About Support Shop Research Research Core Repository Biology & Paleo Environment Geochemistry Marine Geology & Geophysics Ocean & Climate Physics Office of Marine Operations Seismology, Geology, & Tectonophysics Publications Database Publications Procedures Media Inquiries Education Education Hudson River Field Station Public Events K-12 Students Educators Undergraduate & Graduate Students Academic Calendar LDEO Alumni Diversity at Lamont Lamont Code of Conduct News & Events News & Events Research News Lamont in the Media Public Lecture Series Events Monthly Newsletter Media Inquiries People Marine Ops Office of Marine Operations R/V Marcus G. Langseth Cruises Cruise Planning Marine Mammal Protection LDEO Ship History Cruise Schedule What We Learn People R/V Langseth Financial Management Guide U.S. Science Support Program About About LDEO Mission History Annual Reports Office of the Director The Vetlesen Prize Alumni Organization & Policies Open Positions Map & Contacts Support Support LDEO Ways to Give Development Staff Directory Shop Search form Search About LDEOAbout LDEO - Mission - History - Annual Reports - Office of the Director -- Weekly Reports --- Weekly Reports Archive -- External Awards --- 2021 --- 2020 --- 2019 --- 2018 --- 2017 --- 2016 --- 2015 --- 2014 --- 2013 -- Academic Affairs & Diversity -- Anti-Racism Commitment -- Climate & Life -- Internal Awards --- Director's Award --- Jardetzky Lecturer --- Lamont Heritage Award --- Excellence in Mentoring Award --- Storke-Doherty Lectureship -- Postdoctoral Fellowship -- Staff - The Vetlesen Prize - Alumni - Organization & Policies - Open Positions - Map & Contacts About LDEO Mission History Annual Reports Office of the Director Weekly Reports External Awards Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Climate & Life Internal Awards Postdoctoral Fellowship Staff The Vetlesen Prize Alumni Organization & Policies Open Positions Map & Contacts Postdoctoral Fellowship in the Earth and Environmental Science Postdoctoral Fellowships in the fields of Earth, Environmental, and Climate Sciences Extended deadline for applications: November 12, 2021 We accept online applications only. Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University invites applications for Postdoctoral Fellowships in the fields of Earth and environmental sciences. Candidates should have recently completed their Ph.D. or should expect to complete their degree requirements by September 2022. Researchers at the Observatory work to understand the dynamics of the Earth’s chemical, physical and biological systems, from the core to the upper atmosphere, including Earth’s interactions with human society. Our scientists lead research in the fields of solid Earth dynamics; ocean, atmospheric and climate systems; cryospheric dynamics; paleoclimate; biogeoscience; and geohealth solutions. The principal selection criteria for Fellows are scientific excellence and a clearly expressed plan to investigate problems at the forefront of Earth science. Applications from all related fields are welcome. Fellowships are supported institutionally for 24 months, include a $7,500 research allowance, and carry an annual salary of $66,000. Successful candidates will be encouraged to apply for external funding and may be eligible for further internal awards and positions. Lamont is especially interested in qualified candidates who increase the diversity of the Observatory’s scientific personnel. Contact: The Office of the Director, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Columbia University, Palisades, NY 10964 845-365-8546 | pdfellowship@ldeo.columbia.edu Note: Related postdoctoral opportunities are available at the Earth Institute at Columbia University. Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer – Race/Gender/Disability/Veteran. The Lamont community values diversity and inclusion, and encourages applications from members of underrepresented minority groups. Instructions for Applicants: Lamont-Doherty Postdoctoral Fellowships, 2022-2023 1. Deadline: The deadline for submitting application materials, aside from recommendation letters, is November 12, 2021. The deadline for referees to submit letters of recommendation is November 19, 2021. Applicants are strongly encouraged to apply early and to request that their referees send in letters in a timely manner. Letters received after the deadline will be considered as time allows at the discretion of the selection committee. 2. Application website: Applications must be submitted on the Columbia University online application system. After reading all of the instructions, scroll down to the bottom of this page and click the "Apply for Fellowship" button, which will take you to the website where you can submit your application. 3. Application materials: Applicants must submit a CV, including a list of publications; a research proposal; and a list of three referees who will provide letters of recommendation. A current email address must be provided for each referee. Lamont will contact referees for letters of recommendation. 4. Research proposal: The research proposal (called the “Statement of Research” on the application website) should describe the research you propose to conduct at Lamont, as well as your general research interests and goals. You must include a title for your research proposal. Please limit your research proposal to no more than 3 pages, excluding references. Mention your name on the first page on your proposal. Please use a 12-point font. In the interest of fairness to all applicants, the page limit will be strictly enforced. 5. Primary area of research: On the application website, you will be asked to select one of five areas of research: solid-Earth dynamics; ocean, atmospheric, and climate systems; cryospheric dynamics; paleoclimate; or biogeoscience. If your areas of interest span more than one of these fields, select the one that most closely matches your research proposal. If none of these areas apply, select “Other/ None of the above.” 6. Current research at Lamont: Applicants are encouraged to learn about current research programs at the Observatory. Visit the Research pages of our website. 7. Contacting Lamont scientists prior to applying: Applicants are strongly encouraged to contact potential mentors at Lamont to discuss the possibility of working with them. Visit the People pages of our website. 8. Requesting letters from referees: When you submit your application, your referees will automatically receive a request from Lamont. Please inform your referees to expect the request with a deadline of November 19, 2021 for letters of recommendation. 9. Selection criteria: The principal selection criteria are scientific excellence and a clearly expressed plan to investigate one or more problems at the forefront of Earth science. 10. Number of fellowships: The number of fellowships awarded can vary from year to year, ranging from 2 to 4 fellowships per year. 11. Fellowship details: Fellowships are supported institutionally for 24 months and for the coming year will provide an annual salary of $66,000 and a one-time research allowance of $7,500. A portion of the research allowance may be used to cover moving costs, subject to the Director’s approval. 12. Columbia housing: Fellowship recipients are eligible to apply for Columbia University housing; housing slots are limited, however, and a waiting period is often required. 13. Expected start date: The expected start date should be in the fall semester of 2022 or spring semester of 2023. 14. Contact: Applicants can send additional questions to pdfellowship@ldeo.columbia.edu. Apply for the Lamont-Doherty Postdoctoral Fellowship: Call Send SMS Add to Skype You'll need Skype Credit Free via Skype Postdoctoral Fellowships Application Requirement ‹ Management Reports up Postdoctoral Fellowships Application Requirement › Add new comment Research Core Repository Biology & Paleo Environment Geochemistry Marine Geology & Geophysics Ocean & Climate Physics Office of Marine Operations Seismology, Geology, & Tectonophysics Publications Database Publications Procedures Media Inquiries Education Hudson River Field Station Public Events K-12 Students Educators Undergraduate & Graduate Students Academic Calendar LDEO Alumni Diversity at Lamont Lamont Code of Conduct SUPPORT Ways to Give Development Staff Directory Tweets by @LamontEarth The Earth Institute Campus Services Campus Life Video Archive Login Annual Report Strategic Plan Copyright © 2020 by The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York, Lamont -Doherty Earth Observatory. All rights reserved. Support Lamont Research