Race Related Stress Resources - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services Resources Race Related Stress Resources Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ UH Resources Undocumented Students COVID-19 Resources ADHD/ LD/ Autism Assessment Race Related Stress Resources Coping with Racial Trauma BLM Healing Racial Trauma Meditation Racism Recovery Plan Steps Self-Care after Race-Based Trauma 4 Ways People of Color can Foster Mental Health and Practice Restorative Healing Anti-Racist Resources CAPS Racial Trauma is Real Workshop Action Steps Campaign Zero Black Lives Matter Report APPI Hate Resources for anti-racism and Somatic Abolitionism work What to do about Anti-Asian hate AAPI Bystander Intervention Training Articles STOP HESITATING, Elizabeth McCorvey, LCSW But I'm not Racist, Tools for Well-Meaning Whites, Kathy Obear, EdD When White Women Cry, Mamta Motwani Accapad White Fragility, Robin DiAngelo Books Post-Traumatic Slave Syndrome by Dr. Joy Degruy How to be an Antiracist by Ibram X Kendi The New Jim Crow by Michelle Alexander Between the World and Me by Ta-Nehisi Coates The Racial Healing Handbook: Practical Activities to Help You Challenge Privilege, Confront Systemic Racism & Engage in Collective Healing The Cost of Racism for People of Color Healing Racial Trauma: The Road to Resilience White Fragility: Why It's So Hard for White People to Talk about Racism Mental Health, Race and Culture I’m Still Here: Black Dignity in a World Made for Whiteness Men We Reaped: Jesmyn Ward Online Magazine/Publications The Atlantic: Who Gets to Be Afraid in America? Google Doc: Action Steps and Anti-Racism Crooked Media: How to be Anti-Racist Performative Allyship Is Deadly (Here’s What to Do Instead) National AAPI Mental Health Association Asian Mental Health Collective Asians Do Therapy The Steve Fund - is dedicated to the mental health and emotional well-being of students of color. If you are a young person of color who is feeling stressed, depressed, or anxious, please know you can text the crisis text line to connect with a trained crisis counselor 24/7. Text & Phone Supports Crisis Text Line for Young POC Text STEVE to 741741 Asian Lifenet Hotline 1-877-990-8585 CAPS Stands Against APPI Hate Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, inflammatory and xenophobic rhetoric, harassment, and acts of violence against Asian American and Pacific Islander (APPI) persons, families and communities have increased. In solidarity with the Asian, Asian American, and Pacific Islander communities we stand against these acts that damage our society and that are counter to the values of CAPS and our UH Community. Direct and indirect exposure to such events can be troubling and traumatizing and can result in many emotional reactions. If you are in distress, please know we are here to help. Students may contact CAPS by calling 713-743-5454. More support resources are listed below. CAPS Honors All Black Lives Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) grieves the horrific deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, George Floyd and Tony McDade who represent only a few victims of violence and police brutality against Black individuals and communities. We acknowledge the enduring anguish, outrage, despair and exhaustion experienced by our Black communities. We condemn the longstanding history of structural and systemic injustice, prejudice, discrimination, hate, intolerance and violence against Black people. CAPS unequivocally stands in solidarity with the UH Cougar Community, especially our Black students, faculty, staff, and community members... Read Full Statement As mental health providers, we acknowledge the immeasurable harm that oppression causes to the emotional and physical well-being of marginalized populations. We see the higher rates of trauma, depression, anxiety and suicide caused by racism. Experiencing or witnessing trauma can result in a range of feelings and emotions, such as shock, fear, sadness, anger, helplessness, exhaustion or guilt. CAPS is committed to affirming and providing care for all our students who have been directly or vicariously impacted by trauma caused by racism, bigotry, prejudice and indifference. We recognize that it is not enough to make statements of support. The reality is, there cannot be true well-being when there is pervasive inequity and hatred. Those in positions of power must examine how their privilege can be channeled toward addressing inequities, breaking down barriers, and protecting and empowering Black lives and marginalized populations. CAPS will continue to confront the impact of bigotry and hate by leading and joining with others on campus to speak openly about systems of oppression and by offering a safe space for those who are seeking support. Within CAPS, we are committed to: listening non-defensively; being mindful of the impact of our behaviors; identifying and managing our micro-aggressions; holding ourselves accountable by asking, “what am I doing that perpetuates racism?”; training all staff about racial trauma; examining our policies and procedures to ensure we are affirming to all; identifying more online resource materials to support our UH community; advocating for a systematic dismantling of intolerance; and standing proud and brave as allies for our Black students, faculty, and staff who suffer from oppression, marginalization, and persecution. If you or someone you know would like support during this emotional time, or at any point in the future, please do not hesitate to call CAPS at 713-743-5454. In kindness, love and solidarity. Quick Links CAPS Stands Against APPI Hate CAPS Honors All Black Lives University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies