Skip to main content Skip to main navigation About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Top-Tier Academics Baylor>About Baylor>Values & Vision>Top-Tier Academics Top-Tier Academics Baylor offers students a growing academic enterprise that ignites educational excellence, leadership and research discovery. With dedicated professors and a commitment to Christian values, students are provided with the tools to lead, serve and succeed in their future. Integrating academic excellence and Christian commitment, Baylor University's mission is to educate men and women for worldwide leadership and service. At Baylor, students discover how to think critically, analyze to reach informed conclusions and contribute to their academic disciplines. Students find a college experience that prepares them for a path of excellence, discovery and achievement in their professional careers. In 2020, 73% of students found a job or started graduate school within 90 days of graduation. Academics Degree programs: 128 baccalaureate, 77 masters, 46 doctoral, a juris doctor, and 2 education specialist programs Top 7 percent in the National Merit Scholars program One of the select 10 percent of U.S. colleges and universities with a Phi Beta Kappa chapter, which is the nation's oldest scholastic honor society Baylor is classified as a "Doctoral University: Very High Research Activity" or Research 1 institution by the Carnegie Commission on Higher Education Accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School University Libraries Louise Herrington School of Nursing Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music Cutting-Edge Academic Research Baylor provides students numerous opportunities to participate in cutting-edge research. Noted Baylor Chemist Dr. Touradj Solouki explains: < Learn more about Baylor's research Notable Facts Baylor consistently ranks in the top 100 national doctoral-granting universities in "America's Best Colleges" by U.S. News & World Report. Graduate programs in law, business, health disciplines, nursing, the sciences and education are nationally ranked in the 2020 "America's Best Graduate Schools" by U.S. News. Baylor law students have scored the highest passing rate on the Texas State Bar Exam 10 times since 2010. The Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative (BRIC) develops, promotes and markets new science and engineering technologies and provides graduate research space for the School of Engineering and Computer Science. The Howard Hughes Medical Institute has chosen Baylor to join the Science Education Alliance, which engages Baylor students in scientific discovery on a national scale. The Diana R. Garland School of Social Work is a co-sponsor of the Texas Hunger Initiative, a cooperative effort to alleviate hunger in the state. The Chronicle of Higher Education cites Baylor in 11 categories in its "Great Colleges to Work For" survey. Baylor is one of only 44 colleges and universities in the U.S. named a "Best Buy" by The Fiske Guide to Colleges. See more Awards & Rankings Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Research and Discovery Sniffing Out Cancer Saving Lives Building Healthier Lives Saving the Oceans Helping Families Heal Unlocking the Patterns of Life Ensuring Clean Water Ending Hunger in America Stopping the Spread of Disease Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan About Baylor Joining the Baylor family is an opportunity to experience a top academic environment within a dynamic Christian community. Ask Baylor Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories