Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff Home > Home > About us > Springboard Springboard UAA Advising recognizes that students most often need additional support after their initial transition to the University of Washington, namely in the spring of their first-year and into their second-year. The reality of a "sophomore slump" is not unique to UW, and is a well researched reality that is common at universities nationwide. Springboard Programs To support students as they transition into their second year at the University of Washington, UAA Advising leads Springboard - a suite of interventions in the first year that promote meaningful experiences in the second year. While some Springboard activities run the entire academic year, others specifically target students in their final quarter of their first year. Spring 2022 Courses GEN ST 297: Getting to Year 2: Building Meaningful Second-Year and Beyond (2 credits) This class provides spring quarter, first-year students with an opportunity to reflect on the past year, while providing tangible, and proactive opportunities to prepare for a meaningful second-year and beyond. Students will have an opportunity to engage with advisers, faculty, and alumni as they reflect on their academic and co-curricular plans and begin to build their UW experience. Learn More GEN ST 297: Catalyzing Research: The Elements of Involvement (1 credit) This course provides spring quarter first-year students an opportunity to reflect and prepare for meaningful undergraduate research involvement in the natural sciences. Students will have an opportunity to engage with faculty, alumni, and industry professionals as they reflect on their academic and co-curricular plans. Students will learn from researchers about the importance of getting involved, and how to make that happen. Learn More GEN ST 297: Global Engagement: Crafting a Connected Education (1 credit) This course provides spring quarter, first year students with an opportunity to reflect and prepare for meaningful academic and co-curricular global engagement (study abroad, internships, research, etc.). Students will have an opportunity to engage with faculty, alumni, and current students as they reflect on their curiosities and begin to explore and plan ways to craft a global husky experience. Learn More Autumn Courses GEN ST 297: Exploring Majors (offered in autumn quarter): Exploring Majors is a 1 credit course offered in Autumn of the first-year. This course allows students interested in Social Science, Natural Science, and Technology disciplines to discover opportunities available at the UW, to discern their interests and values, and to begin to decide on a path of exploration. Advising Guides Advising Guides help students craft an undergraduate experience that is meaningful to them. These guides are designed to help students reflect on their goals and interests, while navigating the various academic and co-curricular opportunities available at UW. Advising Guides have been developed for first-year students, second-year students, and transfer students. Advising Guides Dinner with the Pack Dinner with the Pack brings together UW students and alumni for conversations about undergraduate academics, co-curricular involvement, and the ways in which a UW undergraduate education will contribute to a meaningful life post-graduation. Learn More Academic Planning Workshops UAA Advising partners with several capacity constrained departments to offer workshops for students not admitted to a particular major. Led by Academic Advisers, and developed in collaboration with departments, these workshops support students as they develop an academic plan, prepare for co-curricular involvement related to their academic interests, and set goals for future quarters. Contact Allie Carpenter, alliecar@uw.edu, for collaboration opportunities. Partnership with Housing and Food Services Throughout the academic year, UAA Advising partners with Housing and Food Services to offer passive programming to students. Topics include major exploration, major to career myth busting, alumni stories, registration tips, and academic transition. Upcoming Programs Spring Break/Early Fall Start Study Abroad Opportunites for Rising Second-Year Students About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update For questions or collaboration opportunities, contact Kyla Mayer (Assistant Director, UAA Advising) at kylaek@uw.edu. Alumni Spotlight Brian Kuranishi 2020, Communication (BA) & Interdisciplinary Visual Arts (BA) When I first came to the University of Washington, I had my heart set on being an artist and pursuing a degree in Art. After my first few quarters, I decided to explore around and came across an Introduction to Communication class. It was in this class that sparked something inside of me. This set me on a path which opened the doors for me to be able to study something that I was passionate about in different avenues through art and communication. More University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA