Skip to site alert. Skip to content Pathology Faculty Directory News Events Make a Gift Contact Us Search About Us Diagnostic Specialties Client and Patient Support Research Education You are here Home > Education > Graduate Program in Pathobiology and Molecular Medicine Residency Program Clinical Fellowships Medical and Dental Student Teaching Graduate Program in Pathobiology and Molecular Medicine Application and Program Requirements Graduate Training Curriculum Graduate Program Student Publications and Alumni Affiliated Programs PhD Program MD/PhD Program Graduate Program in Pathobiology and Molecular Medicine Headquartered in the Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, the Pathobiology and Molecular Medicine Program is designed to give PhD students a strong background in graduate-level biology. We have created a curriculum that deeply examines the basic science, clinical, and social implications of a number of diseases in great detail. Diseases like sickle cell anemia, atherosclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, neuromuscular diseases, liver diseases, diabetes, and diseases of the eye are major areas of research focus. Our program aims at a new approach to converting basic research of disease into clinically relevant results. Alumni have gone on to important positions in academia, government, and industry. Kelsey Heavener - 2nd Year Graduate Student 2019 Students in our program have access to cancer research in the Institute of Cancer Genetics, which does research in lymphoma, breast, prostate, and bladder cancer. The Department of Pathology and Cell Biology maintains a large tumor bank that has proved invaluable for our cancer researchers. Another strong component of the Program is the study of neurodegeneration, and the development of the nervous system, including neuronal stem cells and neuronal development. Many faculty members in this program are associated with the Taub Institute on Alzheimer’s Disease and the Aging Brain, the Parkinson’s Disease Center, the Stem Cell Consortium, and the Motor Neuron Center. Faculty members in these areas are interested in understanding the mechanisms that lead to these diseases and in potential therapeutics. The program is also home to cell biologists interested in microtubule dynamics, cell motility, cell cycle regulation, organelle movement and intracellular protein sorting and the roles of these processes in disease. Training and research opportunities are also available within the Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center and the Center for Infection and Immunity. Administrative Contact Zaia Sivo Senior Program Manager Pathology & Molecular Medicine Graduate Programs Columbia University Medical Center 630 West 168th Street P&S 3-435 New York, NY 10032 Tel: (212) 305-8393 Fax: (212) 342-5498 e-Mail: Path-CMBS@columbia.edu, ns2072@cumc.columbia.edu Affiliated Programs PhD Program MD/PhD Program Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Client and Patient Support Diagnostic Specialties Education Research Faculty Directory News Events Make a Gift Contact Us Columbia University 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top