Skip to main content Skip to main navigation SearchMenu Baylor>Search Find Site By A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Websites starting with 'T': Tax & Compliance Accounting The purpose of the Tax & Compliance accounting office is to coordinate the University's compliance with various government regulations including preparation of tax returns and tax research on compliance issues. Teal Residential College The Residential College for Engineering and Computer Science is a Christ-centered fellowship that fosters the pursuit of wisdom, academic excellence, and meaningful relationships for the development of diverse, innovative leaders. Technology Center for the Hankamer School of Business The Technology Center for Hankamer School of Business on the new Foster Campus for Innovation is the continuation of the Casey Computer Center. The Casey Computer Center was created in 1962 through the generosity of Mr. and Mrs. Carl Casey, who provided the original equipment. Since that time the center has provided excellent service and state-of-the-art equipment for students, faculty and staff in the Hankamer School of Business. Technology for Faculty The home page for faculty technology support provided by Electronic Library. Includes classroom technology services, academic & research computing services, online teaching & learning services. Technology Purchasing The Technology Purchasing office facilitates the purchase of computers, printers, and other technology for departments as well as faculty, staff, and students. Technology Seminars/Training If you are just getting started or need to know how to use all those advanced commands your software provides, take one of our seminars. We offer seminars for the beginner, intermediate and advanced user. Techpoint A part of the Electronic Library, Academic Technology and Media Services is responsible for general access technology across campus, many departmental computer labs, academic software licensing, student printing, a growing number of media services, and the premier on-campus study space: Moody Library's Study Commons. The TechPoint service desk in the Study Commons is available around the clock to help answer your student technology questions and let you borrow technology. Tennis Camp Summer Tennis Camp for 8 - 18 year olds. Texas Hunger Initiative The Texas Hunger Initiative (THI) is a capacity-building collaborative project. We seek to develop and implement strategies to end hunger through policy, education, community organizing, and community development. Texas Oral History Association Texas Oral History Association (TOHA) serves as a network for oral historians in Texas and surrounding states. The Brownings: A Research Guide The purpose of the Guide is to create and maintain a comprehensive and fully-annotated research tool to facilitate the study of the works and lives of Robert and Elizabeth Barrett Browning and their circle. The Cord - Baylor Truett Seminary Baylor’s George W. Truett Theological Seminary seeks to make an impact for God’s Kingdom by skillfully training thoughtful, faithful Christian ministers for a twenty-first-century Church and world. The 2017-18 edition of The Cord features various people associated and affiliated with Truett Seminary who are extending and building the Kingdom. The Facts about the Sexual Assault Crisis at Baylor Our commitment includes doing everything possible to prevent, respond to and support those who encounter sexual violence while a part of our campus community. We are on a course of continuous improvement, working to establish systems, processes and resources that are supportive, responsive, fair and thorough in upholding students’ access to an education. We commit to do the right things for the well-being of our students. The Pulse The Pulse is Baylor University's undergraduate scholarly publication. Published each spring with 5-7 articles by Baylor undergraduates, The Pulse is the forum for top-quality student research in the Honors College and the University at large. The Soundings Project The Soundings Project aims to support the common work of the Christian university and the church, namely to help people lead lives of purpose and significance. To this end, Baylor will serve as an innovation hub for fifteen Texas congregations as the university and congregational leaders together reflect theologically and practically about the nature of vocation. The Store The Paul L. Foster Success Center-Student Success Initiatives hosts a student food pantry called The Store. The Store is located in Sid Richardson 047 (east wing, lower level) and open Monday-Friday, 8:30 am - 5:00 pm. Students who would like to access the store can stop by anytime during this time frame and fill out a brief form and then select the food items they need. Students can access The Store twice a month. The Texas Collection and University Archives A specialized research facility whose mission is the acquisition, preservation, and provision for research of non-artifactual documentation of all aspects of life in Texas. Theatre Arts The home page of the Theatre Arts department. Tobacco-Free, Smoke-Free Campus Effective August 11, 2014, Baylor University will become a tobacco-free, smoke-free campus. At that time, the use of any form of tobacco will be strictly prohibited in and outside of all University-owned buildings located on campus, in Waco and other cities, as well as parking lots, garages and sidewalks. Trademark & DMCA Information Learn more about the use of the name, abbreviations, symbols, emblems, logos, mascots, slogans, and other terminology associated with Baylor University. Also, find the designated agent to receive claimed copyright infringement notifications. Transfer Credit The Transfer Credit Policies apply to all course equivalency credits. Also, look up courses to see if they are approved transfer courses. Transfer Student Success Provides support, programming and advocacy for transfer students throughout their Baylor experience. Travel & Expense The purpose of this site is to aggregate all Baylor related travel and entertainment information into a convenient location in order to provide guidance and facilitate value-added services. Tuition and Costs What makes up the charges on a student's account at Baylor? Tuition and Fees Tuition and fee structures for undergraduate, graduate, law, seminary and other programs can be found from this page. Faculty/Staff homepages starting with 'T': Talbert,Tony Thomas,Brian Trower,Jonathan Baylor Faculty and Staff: Update your homepage address or learn more about your homepage and privacy settings. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678