By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life For Veterans & Military More from this Section For Parents & Families For Faculty & Staff For Students Recreation Groups & Activities Meals & Dining Services & Support Events Calendar Campus Highlights Accessibility & Diversity Housing For Veterans and Military Useful links and resources for veterans and military-connected students. The University participates in all veterans’ education programs and is a Yellow Ribbon school. Learn more about your education benefits . In 1944, Syracuse University helped lead the charge in the creation of the original G.I. Bill, and by 1948 topped the state in veteran enrollment. This legacy continues to be honored and expanded through initiatives like the D'Aniello Institute for Veterans and Military Families (IVMF) , the Office of Veteran and Military Affairs (OVMA) , and the National Veterans Resource Center —a first-of-its kind facility in the United States. From the moment you arrive on campus you'll be greeted with this sense of commitment. Veteran and military-specific admissions counselors will assist you with the application process, the Office of Veteran Success (OVS) will help you navigate your educational benefits, and a current Army Reservist will walk you through internships, networking, and career planning. Whether you want to take courses part-time, full-time, or need something with more flexibility—we’ll help you find your best path. Current Students We work with you to find the courses, services, and programs that are best suited for your academic, professional, and personal needs. Our Career Services and VetSuccess centers on campus are dedicated to assisting you during this transition from boots to books and a full list of resource can be found below. Resources Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Office of Veteran and Military Affairs G.I. Bill Education Benefits Form Use the G.I. Bill® Education Benefits Form to file for benefits every semester. Veterans Legal Clinic (VLC) The VLC assists veterans with claims before the Department of Veterans Affairs and discharge upgrades. Office of Veteran Success (OVS) The OVS is dedicated to providing services to veterans at the university, such as navigating military educational benefits like the GI Bill® and connecting with other veterans. VetSuccess on Campus We encourage, promote, and support veterans to be successful in their educational and career endeavors. Student Veterans Organization Programs and Initiatives Institute for Veterans and Military Families (IVMF) The IVMF is the first interdisciplinary national institute in higher education focused on the social, economic, education and policy issues impacting veterans and their families post-service. Institute for Security Policy and Law This institute is a multidisciplinary, university-based center for the study of national and international security. It offers certificates of advanced study, conducts incisive research on security topics, and provides timely policy analysis. Military Visual Journalism The Newhouse School is home to two Navy-sponsored programs that teach active-duty sailors photojournalism and broadcast journalism. Defense Comptrollership Program This 14 month program provides future comptrollers/resource managers with the conceptual perspective, practical and analytical tools, and skills required to excel in the resource management environment. Graduates are awarded a Master of Business (MBA) degree and an Executive Master of Public Administration (EMPA) degree. Students take 42 credits at the Whitman School and 18 credits at the Maxwell School . Veteran Legacy Fund (VLF) The Syracuse University Veteran Legacy Fund exemplifies the highest level of University and community support for veterans and service members at Syracuse. Donations to the fund benefit students directly through scholarships, special programming, and projects conducted by the Student Veterans Organization (SVO). Syracuse University has a long and ongoing history of commitment to the education of veterans and military-connected students. If you'd like to help honor that commitment, please give today . Featured Stories Training the Nation's Military Photographers and Videographers For nearly six decades, Syracuse University’s military visual journalism program has prepared service members to tell stories through compelling imagery and video. Expanding Architectural Possibilities A U.S. Army veteran brings his unique background to architecture to create moving, impactful spaces. Related Pages Undergraduate Majors and Minors Choose from more than 200 majors and over 100 minors and embrace the interdisciplinary nature of Syracuse University’s academic options. Graduate Degree Programs Choose from more than 200 advanced degree programs from across Syracuse’s 13 schools and colleges, then customize your education with a rich selection of courses, internships, and research projects. Office of Veteran and Military Affairs The Office of Veteran and Military Affairs (OVMA) serves as Syracuse University’s single point of entry for all veteran and military related programs and initiatives. Institute for Veterans and Military Families The IVMF is higher education’s first interdisciplinary academic institute, singularly focused on advancing the lives of the nation’s military veterans and their families. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy