Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Student Housing & On-campus Life You are here Home Life at Temple Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy Student Housing & On-campus Life Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library The global pandemic has affected many of Temple’s normal on-campus operations. Find out everything you need to know about changes on our campuses, including mask requirements while on campus, student housing and more. Students are encouraged to check their Temple emails regularly for information about housing and on-campus operations, as well read more about vaccinations and testing plans. Contents COVID-19 Compliance on CampusIsolation and Quarantine RequirementsOn-campus Housing UpdatesOn-campus OperationsOn-campus ParkingStudent Housing and On-campus Life FAQ COVID-19 Compliance on Campus Vaccines As stated in the Oct. 6, 2021 announcement by the Philadelphia Department of Public Health, all staff, students and faculty at colleges and universities in the city were required to be fully vaccinated or have an approved medical or religious exemption by Nov. 30, 2021. Failure to provide vaccination information in the student health portal may result in exclusion from university premises, including residence halls, and/or the imposition of university sanctions in accordance with university policy. Vaccine Booster As we continue to assess the possibility of requiring booster shots, we strongly recommend getting your booster as soon as possible. If it has been six months or more since your last dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, you are eligible for a booster shot. Boosters are the best way to prevent yourself from becoming infected or becoming seriously ill if you are infected and are readily available in pharmacies, doctors’ offices and through public health organizations. Please upload your booster shot information at temple.edu/vaxupload. Student Health Services resumed vaccine clinics on Main Campus beginning the week of Monday, Jan. 10, 2022. Temple Health System is also offering COVID-19 boosters. Learn more about getting vaccinated at Temple. Testing Students granted a COVID-19 vaccine exemption are required to resume regular testing if they will be on campus for classes or other activities. Failure to comply with the testing program may result in loss of access to campus buildings. Learn important information about getting tested on campus. University Protocols and City Regulations In addition to complying with the university’s testing program, residential students are expected to comply with all university protocols and city regulations. At Temple, this includes adhering to protocols for testing, contact tracing, and quarantining and isolating; limitations on social gatherings; and restrictions on guests in university housing. Students are encouraged to check their Temple emails regularly for additional information about move-in and to read more about vaccinations, testing plans and housing updates for on-campus living. Mask Requirements Effective April 22, 2022, masks will again be optional in most campus spaces, including in common areas, dining halls, meeting rooms, nonclinical office spaces and residence halls. Masking will continue to be required in classrooms, healthcare facilities, labs, shuttles, studios or other locations where in-person classes (including examinations) are taking place. Please read the latest announcement for more information and continue to check temple.edu/coronavirus for updates. Types of Masks and Masking Following updated guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Temple’s mask guidelines have changed. Cloth masks alone are no longer adequate for protecting yourself and others. The CDC recommends that you wear the most protective mask you can that fits well (completely covers your nose and mouth) and that you will wear consistently. You now have three options for how to mask while on campus. Good: a surgical mask with multiple layers of nonwoven material Better: a surgical mask with a cloth mask over it Best: a KN95 mask To get you started, a limited number of KN95 masks will be made available on Main Campus next week. Students can swipe their OWLcards to receive one mask each. Masks will be distributed at the Charles Library security desk, 1101 W. Montgomery Ave. (Bell Building), Howard Gittis Student Center Information Desk and TECH Center security desk. High-quality surgical and KN95 masks are readily available online and in stores and pharmacies. Please be sure to acquire enough masks to last you through the semester. Masks are also available to buy online through our mask storefront. KN95 masks for COVID-19 use While they are not washable, with proper care your KN95 masks should be reusable for an extended period of time. You can see tips on how to increase the lifespan of your KN95 mask below. How long can I use my KN95 mask? You can use your mask as long as breathing remains comfortable. When it becomes soiled, it should be disposed of in the normal trash. When should I replace my KN95 mask? You should replace your KN95 when it becomes soiled. no longer covers the nose and mouth. has stretched out or damaged ties or straps. cannot stay on the face. has holes or tears in the fabric. How can I keep my mask clean? To keep your mask clean between uses, store it in a paper bag. How do I put on and take off my KN95 mask? Follow the instructions below to properly put on and take off your KN95 mask. Wash your hands. Place the mask over your face, with the bottom below your chin and the nosepiece up. Place the earbands over your ears. Using both hands, mold the metal nose clip to fit snugly against the nose and face, and under the eyes. Adjust fit as necessary to reduce air leakage around the mask. Handle mask by the ear loops or straps when removing. Ensuring your mask fits properly initially means you won’t have to adjust it later. City of Philadelphia Mandates It’s important for you to abide by the requirements issued by the city of Philadelphia. Individuals are required to show proof of a COVID-19 vaccine to enter restaurants and other establishments that serve food within the city limits. If you are compliant with Temple’s vaccine requirement or waiver process, you will be able to access university dining halls. Isolation and Quarantine Requirements The university has adopted the updated quarantine and isolation guidance offered by the CDC. If you test positive for COVID-19, you must isolate for five days; you can leave isolation on day six, if you are fever-free with improving symptoms. If you leave isolation on day six, you must continue to wear your mask around others at all times for an additional five days. After the 10 days you should continue to wear your mask in accordance with Temple’s mask guidelines. On-campus Housing Updates In accordance with city mandates, all students must be vaccinated or have an approved medical or religious exemption. If you do not meet one of these requirements, you may be excluded from on-campus buildings and events. Those with approved exemptions must schedule and undergo testing at least twice a week during the academic year. Additional housing information for the fall 2022 semester will become available in the coming weeks. Isolation Housing University-controlled space will be made available at no additional cost or for as low an additional cost as is feasible for quarantine and/or isolation. The university will provide meals for students in its space. Students will not be charged for additional food purchases; however, if they have a meal plan, meals may be charged up to their meal limit each week. University-provided isolation space will be provided for 10 days after symptom onset as long as all symptoms have cleared for a total of 24 hours without the use of fever-reducing medications, or after clearance by an appropriate healthcare provider. University-provided quarantine space will be provided for up to 14 days, as long as no symptoms develop and no positive COVID-19 test is obtained, or after clearance by an appropriate healthcare provider. On-campus Operations The Howard Gittis Student Center began operating under normal hours beginning Jan. 10. Monday through Friday, 7 a.m. to midnight Saturday and Sunday, 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Dining Students who are compliant with Temple’s vaccine requirement or waiver process can access university dining halls. View available dining services and see hours of operation for each location. Campus Recreation and Facilities Campus Recreation facilities are open, but there may be service modifications in order to ensure safe usage of the facilities. Any updates will be posted to temple.edu/coronavirus. On-campus Parking Students You can find in-depth information on student parking options by visiting Campus Operations. From there, access our Parking Portal to determine permit types and rates. Faculty and Staff The Office of Parking Services made the following updates to the parking options available to employees. The office is no longer completing in-office transactions. Fall Permits Fall permits must be purchased online. There will be no in-office permit purchases. Your permit will be mailed directly to your house. Please review and update your primary mailing address in TUportal to ensure you receive your permit. There will be a $2.50 service charge added to all permit purchases. This charge pays for postage and a third-party credit card processor. Flex Parking Option If you continue to work remotely, but will need to occasionally park on campus, you may use the $10-per-entrance Flex parking option. You can add funds via a credit card and payroll deductions can begin the following month. Learn more about employee parking at Main Campus, Ambler Campus and the Health Sciences Center. Main Campus and Ambler Campus Health Sciences Center Student Housing and On-campus Life FAQ Why did the university start the spring 2022 semester with virtual classes? The region and the country saw significant increases in omicron infections of not only the unvaccinated, but also those that have been vaccinated or have previously been infected with COVID-19. These infections were projected to peak in January. The virtual start allowed us to better understand the trajectory of infections in our area and to best plan for the remainder of the term with our community’s health and safety in mind. Will classroom or university guidelines change upon the return to in-person classes? The university will follow applicable guidance from the city of Philadelphia and will keep the university members informed as changes occur. At this time, the university intends to continue to require the following. All employees and students must be fully vaccinated or have an approved religious or medical exemption. Those with approved medical or religious exemptions must submit to weekly testing. Masks are required in all university buildings. Appropriate hand hygiene should continue to be practiced. Monitor your own health and stay at home if you are ill. Contact Health Services if you have been exposed to COVID-19 and follow instructions. Is the university requiring boosters for students, faculty and staff? Temple strongly urges all those that are eligible receive a booster shot. Boosters are the best way to prevent yourself from becoming infected or becoming seriously ill if you are infected. Can I receive a booster on-campus? If it has been six months or more since your last dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, you are eligible for a booster shot. Boosters will be made available to eligible students, faculty and staff based on availability of the vaccine. Booster shots are also readily available in pharmacies, doctors’ offices and through public health organizations. Health Services will resume offering vaccine and booster clinics beginning the week of Jan. 10, 2022. Schedule an appointment through Health Services. Temple Health System is also offering COVID-19 boosters. Will all scheduled events be permitted to take place as planned? Temple is partnering with the city of Philadelphia to protect our community by limiting the number of large in-person gatherings. More information regarding upcoming events will be forthcoming. For the time being, students are encouraged to limit their gatherings to their social groups. Where can I get tested for COVID-19? Temple Student and Employee Health have several testing options. How will the university dining services be impacted by the city requirements for vaccination or exemption? Dining services will be open and available to all students on campus. Some services may be modified to grab-and-go service to align with city requirements, but all dining facilities are projected to be open in some format as scheduled. Are masks required in residence hall rooms? Masks are required in all public areas of the residence halls. Regardless of vaccination status, masks are not necessary for an individual’s private residence, including residence hall rooms and suites, as long as all others sharing the space are at low risk of severe COVID-19 disease. Will Campus Recreation facilities be open? Campus Recreation facilities are open, but there may be service modifications in order to ensure safe usage of the facilities. Any updates will be posted to temple.edu/coronavirus. Back to Main Coronavirus Page Go back to Life at TempleMore in COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Return Scenario Planning University Communication International Campuses and Programs Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.