Skip to main content Main navigation Mobile Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Main navigation Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Admissions & Financial Aid In This Section Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education You are here Home Admissions & Aid Your potential. Our commitment. Limitless possibilities. Harvard Kennedy School makes a difference in the world. So do you. You believe that your work connects to something larger than yourself. Whether you’re a policy wonk, a grassroots organizer, or a public-minded innovator, you understand the impact we can achieve together. Harvard Kennedy School offers an educational experience at the nexus of scholarship and governance. United by a common drive to improve people’s lives through public leadership and public policy, we transform ideas and ideals into real-world solutions. Every generation faces the opportunity to meet the pressing challenges of its era. At Harvard Kennedy School, we make the commitment to meet these challenges with you. If you want to make a change in the world, this is the place to start. Seize the opportunity. Ask what you can do. "The diverse people of the Kennedy School community share a deep and abiding commitment to the public interest, and have extraordinary talent and drive that give this commitment real force in the world, which gives me great optimism for the future." Dean Doug Elmendorf Globe Get started Master's Program Admissions This is the place where your passion and aspirations meet the urgent needs of the world. Find out how to apply. Learn more Executive Education Admissions Read more about the HKS Executive Education admissions process and related fees. Learn more Doctoral Program Admissions Bring your ideas and research to life. Prepare for a future in academia or policymaking. Find out how to apply. Learn more 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1100 Ask What You Can Do Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Admissions Events Give Now Alumni Jobs Contact Us Privacy Web Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/harvardkennedyschool/ https://twitter.com/kennedy_school https://www.linkedin.com/school/harvard-kennedy-school-of-government/ https://www.youtube.com/user/HarvardKennedySchool http://instagram.com/harvardkennedyschool/