Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media HGSE Celebrates Commencement 2022 Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram News & Events HGSE Celebrates Commencement 2022 The HGSE community came together — for its first in-person Commencement in three years — to celebrate the accomplishments of 1,016 graduating students By Emily Boudreau May 26, 2022 Watch Dean Long's address and the entire HGSE Presentation of Diplomas and Certificates. A graduate waits for the day's festivities to begin on Appian Way Commencement morning Photo: Jill Anderson A graduate waits for the day's festivities to begin on Appian Way Commencement morning Photo: Jill Anderson For the first time since 2019, graduates in their mortarboards and gowns lined up on Appian Way, preparing to step into the sunshine and across the stage to accept their diplomas. This year’s Commencement ceremony served as a powerful reminder that despite the past few months and years marked by the pandemic, social injustice, declining faith in democracy, war, and violence, the 1,016 members of the graduating class of 2022 — and their faculty — still believe in the transformative power of education. >> Watch HGSE's Presentation of Diplomas and Certificates In her Commencement address, Dean Bridget Terry Long confessed “that there have also been times when I feel like there is a storm cloud threatening to upend my optimistic outlook.” But, with 958 Ed.M. students, 24 Ph.D. students, 24 Ed.L.D. students, seven C.A.S. recipients, and three Ed.D. students who collectively represent a mix of legacy and new programs, remote and local students, all committed to bettering the future of education, Long found cause for celebration and hope. “You came to HGSE and are here today because of your passion for improving education …,” said Long. “You — let me rephrase that — we represent the entire education ecosystem, and together that is an impressive force for good.” As educators, Long continued, the class of 2022 has a crucial role to play in building a better world. Throughout her speech, Long acknowledged that while the education system is plagued by inequities, it remains a fundamental element of a just society, an expression of hope, and a way to bring people together. Dean Bridget Long delivers her Commencement speech to the class of 2022 on May 26 “We are an important backbone for our communities, leaders pushing to help learners of all ages reach their potential,” said Long. “We are inventors, analysts, writers, coaches, and artists who use ingenuity, creativity, and collaboration to create new experiences and discover new ways of advancing learning. We support the vulnerable and help the powerless find their voice, and we foster learning between those who might look differently, speak differently, and worship differently but who nonetheless find commonality in myriad ways perhaps not obvious to the eye.” For this cohort of graduates, HGSE has provided a community in which to explore new horizons and work toward a better future — they’ve invested in the future of that community, donating the largest class gift on record. “Your generosity will live on in limitless ways as we support yet another cohort of aspiring educators,” said Long. Throughout the week’s events, HGSE students and faculty have turned to one another in both celebration and support. At the Convocation ceremony on Wednesday afternoon, 2021 National Teacher of the Year Juliana Urtubey acknowledged the importance of recognizing accomplishments alongside one another, even in the face of tragedy and hardship. “Prevailing also means celebrating; celebrating is part of the rising of our next steps,” she said. “So we celebrate today, knowing our hearts can carry this together.” >> Watch HGSE's Convocation Ceremony Urtubey also reminded HGSE community members that carrying hope forward into the world with them is essential to the task of changing that world together. Drawing on her experience as a garden educator, she noted that when the leaves on the vines “are thin enough to make you doubt yourself, doubt your impact,” there is often still joy hidden underground in the bounty under the soil. “Once we understand the power of our humanity and exercise hope, only then are we able to embrace collective work that transforms,” she said. The convocation ceremony also recognized community members who have continued to show up for and support their classmates and students throughout the course of the year, including Morningstar Family Teaching Award winner Lecturer Aaliyah El-Amin, student speaker Kim Frusciante, student-selected faculty speaker Senior Lecturer Junlei Li, intellectual contribution award winners from each master’s program, class marshals, the cohort of Equity and Inclusion Fellows, and Phyllis Strimling Award winner Sruti Sriram. 2021-22 National Teacher of the Year Juliana Urturbey addresses graduates at Convocation on May 25. In her closing Commencement remarks, Long sent the graduates off with a reminder that as they collectively enter a period of recovery and healing, they must not forget this is also a tremendous opportunity to reimagine education — and one that they are prepared to take on. “Why?” she said, “Because you are educators, an important and sacred profession. What you do is foundational. You provide hope. You build connection. And the effects of what you do are limitless. And you will not do it alone. You will always be a part of HGSE, a community of educators.” Commencement week festivities will continue into this weekend, when HGSE’s classes of 2020 and 2021 come together on campus for events recognizing their perseverance and academic accomplishments. After celebrating their own commencements virtually in 2020 and 2021, graduates will finally gather under the tent in Radcliffe Yard, where they will have the opportunity to hear their names called and walk across the stage. On Sunday, exercises for all 2020 and 2021 Harvard graduates will be held at the Tercentenary Theatre in Harvard Yard. This ceremony will include an address from U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland ’74, J.D.’77. >>Watch the live stream of the HGSE Commencement Ceremony for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 on Saturday, May 28 For full coverage of Commencement 2022, visit: https://www.gse.harvard.edu/commencement. Related News: Celbrating Our First Century and Launching Our Next The prepared remarks of Dean Bridget Long for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Celebration. The Impact of Immigration on Families In her research, doctoral marshal Sarah Rendón García, Ed.M.'12, Ph.D.'21, explores how the children of immigrants learn about their families' status in the U.S. More In: Commencement 2022 In this section News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media HGSE Celebrates Commencement 2022 Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice