Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State The Ohio State University Alumni Association GIVE NOW Activities and events Virtual engagement Upcoming events On-demand events Alumni Tours Rent event space Ohio State Alumni Awards 2022 Alumni Awards: Call for Nominations Membership Your membership Become a life donor Career Management Official ring Communities Alumnifire Alumni clubs and societies Find a club Find a society BuckeyeBuzz submission form Resources Buckeye Advocates Buckeye Room Classmates Current students Recent graduates Student-Alumni Council Student-Alumni Council Beat Tees Young Alumni Academy Pay forward Alumni Scholars Program Volunteer opportunities Scholarships Student recruitment Team Buckeye The Oval Collection Wines Buckeyes Helping Buckeyes News Ohio State Alumni Magazine Advertising Issues In Memoriam Go Buckeyes! Buckeye Football Ticket Process Ohio State Athletics Game Watch Game Watch Abroad About About us Contact info Staff directory Video collection The Engagement Center The Engagement Center Team Home Communities Volunteers Volunteer with Ohio State Join thousands of other Buckeyes in giving back. Perhaps you participated in Make a Difference Day or danced the night away at BuckeyeThon while you were a student. Now you and alumni everywhere can easily volunteer with Ohio State via the new Office of Volunteer Relations. From ushering at the Wexner Center for the Arts to online career mentoring, you can learn about volunteer opportunities through our one-stop shop. At volunteer.osu.edu, you’ll find a wide variety of opportunities searchable by keyword, location, or Ohio State department. Opportunities are available in Columbus, across Ohio, nationally and virtually. Some volunteer opportunities are ongoing and others are one-time commitments. New opportunities will be posted regularly, so create an account and sign up for opportunity alerts based on your interests. Community members, fans and friends, as well as alumni, retirees, faculty and staff are welcome and encouraged to get involved with Ohio State. Create an account, set up email alerts based on your interests and track your hours. Getting started volunteer.osu.edu Enter a keyword in the “search for” field or enter your city or ZIP code in the “opportunities near” field. Click "sign up" for an opportunity that interests you. (If you don’t have an account with the Alumni Association, follow the link to create a new user profile.) Questions? For more about the Office of Volunteer Relations or for questions regarding posting an opportunity, contact: Julie Haley, Assistant Director, Alumni Society Engagement volunteer@osu.edu 614-688-8514 I volunteer because… of pride in my community and to give back to others. – Sherry & Michael Boyd Volunteer tools Photo galleries Buckeyes Give: Month of Service © 2022 The Ohio State University Alumni Association Longaberger Alumni House | 2200 Olentangy River Road, Columbus, OH 43210 Contact: 614-292-2200 or 800-678-6355 | Webmaster | Page maintained by University Marketing Request an alternate format of this page | Web Services Status | Nondiscrimination notice Ohio State Alumni Assoc. The Ohio State University