COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Physics - Chemical Physics Option, Major MajorPhysics - Chemical Physics Option All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Mathematics, Statistics and Physics A Bachelor of Science (BS) in physics from Wichita State will give you a strong background in the study of matter, energy and their interactions. You'll also have the chance to conduct research and interact with faculty and graduate students. The program offers several options including chemical, molecular, engineering and more. Graduates are well prepared for advanced study—and for diverse careers in science and technology. Learn how physics is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program WSU group is part of a huge global science project As a physics student, you might have the opportunity to take part in once-in-a-lifetime projects. Wichita State is playing a key role in the creation of the Long-Baseline Neutrino Facility in Illinois and the Deep Underground Neutrino Experiment in South Dakota, massive global science labs involving more than 1,000 scientists and engineers from around the world. It's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for the students working on the project alongside WSU professors. Together, they're working on particle physics computer simulations to support the international project. Curriculum The BS in physics—chemical physics—curriculum consists of 47 credit hours. You'll first choose from two core options: A: General College Physics I & II B: Physics for Scientists I and II & University Physics Lab I and II Then you'll choose from a variety of physics, math and chemistry courses based on your academic and career interests. View the curriculum Careers A degree in physics from Wichita State opens doors to a variety of graduate programs and professional schools—leading to high-paying, high-demand careers in fields such as university teaching, public and private scientific research, government, health care and more. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Physics (Minor) Engineering Technology - Civil Engineering Technology Computer Science Mathematics Philosophy Mechanical Engineering 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©