COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Frequently Asked Questions Section Menu Undergraduate Admissions Apply Now Majors Tuition and Fees Visit Campus FAQ Admission Requirements Housing Scholarships Financial Aid Request Information Contact Admissions Browse frequently asked undergraduate admissions questions by topic. Get Admitted Affordability Housing Next Steps Family Majors International and Graduate Campus Life Advisors, Counselors and Teachers Campus Safety Contact Us Admissions process How do I apply to WSU? Students must follow these steps to apply to WSU: Freshmen Apply any time after your junior year of high school. Incoming freshmen should apply early, in order to receive full consideration for the Freshmen Merit Scholarship Program. No additional scholarship application is required. Students just need to be fully admitted with the following items on file: Completed paper or online application Official high school transcripts sent directly to WSU ACT or SAT scores sent directly to WSU Non-refundable $40 application fee Common App Wichita State is a member of the Common App. If you'd like to apply using the Common App, add us to your My Colleges list. Transfer Students Apply at least one semester before transferring to WSU. Incoming transfers should apply early, in order to receive full consideration for the Transfer Merit Scholarship Program. No additional scholarship application is required. Students just need to be fully admitted with the following items on file: Transfers with 23 hours or fewer Completed paper or online application Official high school transcripts sent directly to WSU Official college transcripts sent directly to WSU from all colleges attended ACT or SAT scores sent directly to WSU Non-refundable $40 application fee Transfers with 24 or more hours Completed paper or online application Official college transcripts sent directly to WSU from all colleges attended Non-refundable $40 application fee Learn more about transferring to WSU Adult Learners Apply prior to the semester you want to begin taking classes. Adult Learners (21 years and older) with fewer than 24 hours Official high school transcripts or GED scores sent directly to WSU Official college transcripts sent directly to WSU from all colleges attended Adult Learners (21 years and older) with no transfer work Official high school transcripts or GED scores sent directly to WSU When should I apply? Wichita State has a rolling admissions policy for all incoming students (except high school guests), which means applications are processed as they are received. Students should apply early, prior to the semester they want to begin taking classes. Students must be fully admitted as a degree-bound student to receive financial aid, invitations to WSU's scholarship competitions or to be considered for merit-based scholarship awards. Applications are accepted for the fall, spring and summer semesters. Students should expect to receive a decision from WSU within two weeks after the Office of Admissions receives all of the necessary application materials including transcripts and ACT / SAT scores. What are the basic requirements to be admitted? Wichita State University follows Qualified Admissions (QA) criteria, set by the Kansas Board of Regents, when admitting the following types of undergraduate students: incoming freshmen transfer students adult learners homeschool students nondegree students, including college and high school guests concurrent enrollment students former WSU students senior citizens Admission Requirements Who can I contact about my application status? Students can contact the Office of Admissions at WSU to find out the status of an admission application. To contact admissions, please call 316-978-3085. Students should contact the Office of Financial Aid to inquire about the status of their financial aid application or scholarship award status. To contact Financial Aid, please call 316-978-3430 or visit the financial aid website. How does WSU accept transcripts and test scores? Can I hand-carry? WSU accepts transcripts and test scores (ACT, SAT) in a variety of ways. Some items may be hand-carried, but certain rules and restrictions apply. View more information on sending transcripts How do I change my app info or semester of attendance? If you want to change information on your application or update your semester of attendance and have applied to WSU within the current academic year, you can update your information online at wichita.edu/update or contact the Office of Admissions directly at 316-978-3085. If you applied outside the current academic year, you will need to reapply to the university. If you are unsure of when you were admitted, please contact the Office of Admissions at 316-978-3085. I'm a former high school guest student. Do I need to re-apply? If you were enrolled at WSU and in high school at the same time, you will need to reapply for admission as a degree-bound student. We will need official transcripts for any colleges you have previously attended, so we can update your file. Please contact the Office of Admissions at 316-978-3085 or visit the Marcus Welcome Center to discuss your specific situation with our staff. Is there a form needed for midterm or early high school graduates? Yes. Midterm / early high school graduates must fill out a form before attending Wichita State. Midterm Graduate / Early Graduate Approval Form (pdf) Top of page Cost, financial aid and scholarships How much does it cost to attend WSU? Our tuition and fees change each academic year and are approved by the Kansas Board of Regents. View current information on tuition and fees How much is room and board for one year at WSU? The average room and board for a double room (with a roommate) in Shocker Hall for the 2021-2022 academic year is $11,260, with an unlimited meal access plan. Other room and board options are available. See wichita.edu/housing for details What scholarships does WSU offer? Freshman Merit Scholarship Program Fully admitted students with a six-semester transcript and test score on file are automatically considered for four-year, renewable scholarship. Students are encouraged to get admitted early for maximum consideration. Students are evaluated based on three criteria: Unweighted GPA looks at individual academic performance Class rank looks at how students perform at their school ACT / SAT looks at how students perform on a national level View more information on Freshman Merit Scholarships Transfer Merit Scholarship Program Transfer Merit Scholarships provide a renewable award for new, incoming transfer students who take at least 12 credit hours and are working toward their first bachelor’s degree. View more information on Transfer Merit Scholarships How do I apply for general scholarships? To apply for general scholarships, incoming students must be fully admitted. No scholarship application is necessary! New Incoming Freshmen, Transfer and Adult Learner students just need to be fully admitted to WSU. View the admissions requirements Do I need to submit a separate scholarship app to my academic college? Yes. Students should also check with their academic college, because college-specific scholarships may have different application forms, procedures and deadlines. View a list of academic college scholarship contacts Does WSU offer any tuition discounts? Yes. Learn more about available tuition discount programs at wichita.edu/tuitiondiscounts. How do I participate in Distinguished Scholarship Invitational? Learn more about how to compete in DSI I'm a National Scholarship finalist. What do I need to do? Learn more about requirements for National Scholarship finalists How many students are usually awarded financial assistance each year at WSU? Approximately 61 percent of all WSU undergraduates receive some form of financial assistance. Approximately 36 percent of students who apply for financial aid receive need-based gift aid, while approximately 49 percent of students receive need-based self-help aid. The number of students who receive merit-based aid changes frequently due to the abundant number of scholarships awarded each semester. For more information, visit the WSU Office of Financial Aid Top of page Housing What on-campus housing does WSU offer? Living on campus lets you go away to school whether you live across town or across the country! We offer housing options to meet the needs of just about any student. On-campus housing is available for students in Shocker Hall, The Suites, and the Flats at WSU. Housing options include an honors floor, a fine arts floor, suite-style residence hall rooms and a variety of floor plans. Freshmen are required to live on campus during their first two semesters of college. Exceptions are made for freshmen who are 21 years of age or older; married; living with a parent, legal guardian, grandparent, aunt or uncle in Sedgwick County; taking fewer than nine credit hours; or living in official fraternity or sorority housing. Students must have an approved exemption form on file with WSU housing. Admission to WSU does not mean automatic room reservations. Each student admitted needs to complete a contract and an application card and pay an application fee and prepayment / deposit to reserve a room or apartment. Students who have an approved exemption form or are an upper-classman may live off-campus while studying at WSU. There are numerous apartment complexes and houses for rent near campus. Also, some fraternities and sororities offer housing options to their members. Approximately 29 percent of first-time, full-time freshman and 9 percent of other undergraduate students live on campus. There are currently 1,100 students living on campus. For any additional information please visit the Office of Housing and Residence Life. Do transfer students need to apply for housing? Can transfers live on campus? If you have less than 30 hours of transfer credit or do not fit into one of the exemption categories, you are required to live on campus. We offer options for upper-classmen as well as non-traditional students. For more information on housing and exemptions, please visit wichita.edu/housing. Top of page Steps for admitted students The Office of Admissions welcomes you as a newly admitted Shocker! There are a few more steps you'll want to take to gain full access to the university. Establish your online ID (myWSU ID) Once you have your online ID, you can access myWSU, Wichita State's online portal, to access a variety of great web-based services. Establish your online ID (myWSU ID) File the FAFSA Complete and submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) as soon as possible, preferably before March 1 of the preceding academic year. Visit www.fafsa.gov Housing Fact: Students who live on campus are statistically inclined to make better grades in college and are more likely to graduate. On-campus living is optional for transfer students, but we encourage it. View more information on housing Register for orientation Orientation is required for all new students. During Orientation, Transition Mentors will connect you to important people and resources, answer questions, introduce you to campus life and prepare you for classes. Specific programs are available for new freshmen, transfer students, returning adults and online learners. Enrollment does not occur during Orientation. Register for orientation Get enrolled The enrollment process varies for freshmen, transfer students, adult learners and online students. Students starting college at WSU directly out of high school will enroll through OneStop Student Services. Get enrolled Top of page Family, parents and legal guardians How can family members support their Shocker students? As you've been helping your student look for a suitable university, you've probably noticed: you aren't necessarily looking at the same features. Right? So this is our opportunity to tell you about some of the benefits that your incoming freshman might overlook. The boring stuff. And, probably, the kind of stuff that can keep a loved one awake all night worrying. The Office of Shocker Family Programs is here to help your student transition academically and socially to campus by connecting them with the people, services and support they need to get them to graduation and beyond. Learn more about Shocker Family Programs Top of page Majors and courses What majors does WSU offer? WSU currently awards undergraduate degrees in the seven academic colleges. View a complete list of degree programs What are the general education requirements at WSU? To ensure that all WSU students receive a broad foundation for learning while in college, students must complete our general education program. Although specific requirements depend on majors, a broad outline of the general education program includes the following: All undergraduate students, regardless of major, must take certain basic skills classes or meet the requirements for those classes. All students must complete: English Composition or College English 1 College English 2 Public Speaking College Algebra In addition, students must complete classes in several academic divisions, including fine arts and humanities, social and behavioral sciences and mathematics and natural sciences. As a part of these requirements, students must successfully complete a combination of introductory and further study or issues and perspectives courses in each of these divisions. You should contact an advisor in your area of study for more specific information. Our catalogs are available at the campus bookstore on the first floor of the Rhatigan Student Center and online. Where can I find the academic calendar? Wichita State operates on a traditional academic calendar that includes 16-week fall and spring semesters and a shorter summer semester. During the two weeks prior to the beginning of each semester, students may enroll in two-week pre-session courses. Where can I find course offerings? You may learn about the courses available at WSU by visiting wichita.edu/registrar. You may order a course catalog with explanations of the classes offered at WSU by contacting the WSU Bookstore by phone at 316-978-3490 or visit them online at wsubooks.com. Can I receive AP or IB credit at WSU? Students who are interested in learning about WSU's policy on advanced placement credit should contact our Counseling and Testing Center at 316-978-3440. The Counseling and Testing Center will review advanced placement scores and award appropriate credit. Students should have their score reports sent directly to: Wichita State University Counseling and Testing Center 1845 Fairmount Wichita, KS 67260-0091 All credits earned at an accredited institution will transfer to Wichita State. However, students must speak to their academic advisor to determine if the credits will apply to their degree programs. For information about admission for transfer students, please visit the Registrar's Transfer Equivalency webpage. Can I take online courses? WSU offers several options for students who want to participate in online education. Find out more about online learning at WSU. How do I enroll? Students who are new to Wichita State meet with an academic advisor to enroll in classes. Find your academic college’s advising center All incoming students must complete an orientation, regardless of previous credit hours earned. Sign up for orientation at wichita.edu/orientation Top of page International and graduate admissions I'm an international student. Who do I contact for more information? Learn more at the Office of International Admissions. I'm a graduate student. Where can I find information about grad classes? For more information, visit the WSU Graduate School. Top of page Campus life Where is the WSU campus located? When you come to WSU, you gain not only a vibrant university community, but an entire city! Wichita, home of WSU, is the largest city in Kansas, the state's cultural, educational, health care, financial and business center. Approximately 630,000 people live in the greater Wichita metro area, making it large enough to offer various cultural and entertainment options while maintaining the hospitality of a mid-sized Midwestern city. A few areas of interest in Wichita include a revitalized Old Town, with a farmers and art market and numerous restaurants and shopping options; four major shopping centers; five major movie houses; a thriving museum district including science and art museums; various sporting options including hockey and baseball teams; and various parks, golf courses, tennis courts and an ice-skating arena. Several large cities, including Kansas City, Oklahoma City, St. Louis and Dallas, are within a few hours drive. These areas provide additional cultural and recreational opportunities for WSU students. Learn more about Wichita What are athletics like at WSU? Athletic traditions at WSU are abundant! In fact, it was on our campus in 1905 when the very first night football game was played west of the Missouri River, thanks to a field lined with Coleman gas lanterns. Since then, WSU teams have been to the NCAA Final Four, won the College World Series, played host to some of the greatest athletes in the world, and appeared in the NCAA Sweet Sixteen. As a WSU student, you receive a free ticket to all WSU home athletic events! Today, Wichita State is a member of the American Athletic Conference. WSU men compete in basketball, baseball, track / cross country, tennis and golf, while WSU women compete in basketball, softball, track, tennis, golf and volleyball. The University also hosts bowling and crew teams as independent sports. Our bowling teams are high-caliber competitors. Between them, they have won 20 national championships - more than any collegiate bowling program in the country! For more information or to purchase tickets, please visit Shocker Athletics. What are the students like at WSU? In fall 2021, WSU was home to 12,722 undergraduate students. The ethnic breakdown of WSU undergraduate students is as follows: African American – 6.3 percent American Indian or Alaskan Native – 0.7 percent Asian or Pacific Islander – 7.3 percent Hispanic – 14.8 percent International – 4.7 percent White – 58.8 percent Two or more races, non-Hispanic – 5.4 percent Unknown – 2 percent There are 2,193 freshmen enrolled for the most recent semester. The average class size at WSU averages about 20 students. 90 percent of classes have 50 students or fewer. 68 percent of the classes are taught by professors or associate professors. 10 percent of the classes are taught by graduate student assistants. The student to faculty ratio is 20:1 The average high school GPA of WSU students is 3.38. The average SAT combined score of WSU students is 1093. The average ACT score of WSU students is 23. Approximately 71 percent of undergraduate students at WSU attend full-time, while the remaining 29 percent attend part-time and take advantage of gaining work experience at local companies such as Boeing, Raytheon Aircraft, Cessna Aircraft, Coleman, Bank of America, Bombardier Aerospace Learjet, Spirit AeroSystems, Via Christi Regional Medical Center, Wesley Medical Center, and Koch Industries. For more information on the Common Data Set, please visit WSU's Office of Institutional Research. Top of page Advisors, counselors and teachers I'm a high school counselor. Where can I find information to share with my students? Resources for counselors Keep your students connected with the unique opportunities and unmatched resources Wichita State provides. Counselor Information Update Want to stay in the loop on admissions updates? Use the form below to update your school's counselor information. Net Price Calculator Estimate college costs with this helpful tool. Meet the Staff Contact information for admissions staff members. Scholarships Encourage your students to get admitted early for priority consideration for merit-based scholarship awards. No additional scholarship application required! Financial Aid Financial Aid can answer any questions related to student award packages, from Verification and Student Aid Reports to Federal Work Study and Loans. Financial Aid officers are also skilled in working with students when their financial circumstances change unexpectedly. Counseling and Testing Counseling and Testing works with students who have earned International Baccalaureate and Advanced Placement Credit. Students can also register for SAT/ACT prep workshops, Institutional ACT, and College Level Examination Program (CLEP) tests through this office. High School Guest Program Juniors and seniors with a 3.00 cumulative GPA are allowed to take up to six credit hours per semester through the High School Guest Program. Upcoming Events See the special upcoming programs that WSU is offering to your students. Students can RSVP at this site. myWSU Help your students retrieve their class schedules, view their grades or change their address/phone number at WSU's Web-based student information portal. Kansas Board of Regents View Kansas Qualified Admissions criteria and access information about various state scholarships. Kansas Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers (KACRAO) Access phone numbers for all colleges in the state, find a certified Planning for College presenter in your area, and download the form for the KACRAO scholarship. Forms and applications The following forms can help your students satisfy their admission and enrollment needs. Please don't hesitate to contact the Office of Admissions with any questions at 316-978-3085. Online Application For Admission Apply for admission online. A completed application file includes the application for admission, ACT / SAT scores, official high school transcript (at least six semesters) and a $40, non-refundable application fee. See how WSU accepts transcripts Application Fee Waiver (PDF) Certain students may be eligible to receive an application fee waiver. Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) Encourage your students to fill out the FAFSA by the March 1 priority deadline. WSU's school code is 001950. Midterm Graduate / Early Release Form (PDF) This form needs to be submitted for students who are graduating high school early and want to get admitted to Wichita State. High School Guest Juniors and seniors with a 3.00 cumulative GPA are allowed to take up to six credit hours per semester as a high school guest at Wichita State. The High School Guest page has more information, including a special guest application and a grade level / GPA requirement exception form. I'm a community college advisor. Where can I find information to share with my students? Resources for advisors Keep your students connected with the unique opportunities and unmatched resources Wichita State provides. Visit the Transfer GatewayThe online Transfer Gateway gives students an estimate of how their credits will transfer to their desired degree program at Wichita State. Net Price Calculator Estimate college costs with this helpful tool. Meet the Staff Contact information for admissions staff members. Online Application For Admission Apply for admission online. A completed application file includes the application for admission, official transcripts from all previous colleges attended, and a $40, non-refundable application fee. See how WSU accepts transcripts Scholarships Encourage your students to get admitted early for priority consideration for merit-based scholarship awards. No additional scholarship application required! Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) Encourage your students to fill out the FAFSA by the March 1 priority deadline. WSU's school code is 001950. Financial Aid Financial Aid can answer any questions related to student award packages, from Verification and Student Aid Reports to Federal Work Study and Loans. Financial Aid officers are also skilled in working with students when their financial circumstances change unexpectedly. Counseling and Testing Counseling and Testing works with students who have earned International Baccalaureate and Advanced Placement Credit. Students can also register for College Level Examination Program (CLEP) tests through this office. Upcoming Events See the special upcoming programs that WSU is offering to your students. Students can RSVP at this site. myWSU Help your students retrieve their class schedules, view their grades or change their address/phone number at WSU's Web-based student information portal. Kansas Board of Regents View Kansas Qualified Admissions criteria and access information about various state scholarships. I'm a high school teacher. Where can I find information to share with my students? Resources for high school teachers We've included links to various resources that will help connect you and your students to opportunities available through WSU. If you have questions or would like to request additional information, email publicrelations@wichita.edu or call 316-978-6085. Upcoming Events See the upcoming events we’re hosting for high school students. Students can RSVP at this site. Majors and Minors WSU offers 70 undergraduate degree programs and over 200 areas of study. Learn more here. (I’m not sure if these are still the correct numbers?) Admissions Publications Curious about scholarships, housing, campus life, picking a major or general WSU information? All of our physical publications are available here. Student Request for Information Have a student interested in learning more about WSU? Have them complete this form and we’ll follow up with more information. Campus Visit The best way to learn about Shocker Nation is to visit campus. Have a student interested in coming to WSU for an individual campus visit? Sign up here. Virtual Tour Unable to visit campus? No problem. Our interactive virtual tour will show you our beautiful campus at a time convenient for you. Group Visit Would you like to bring a group of 10 or more students to WSU for a visit? Details and registration info is available here. Giveaways Have a classroom project or school initiative that could benefit from Shocker swag? Submit a giveaway request here. Alumni Association Connect with fellow Wichita State graduates, donate to scholarship funds and stay informed on WSU events through the Alumni Association. Shocker Store Looking to stock up on your black and yellow? Look no further than the Shocker Store, now with locations in the Rhatigan Student Center and Braeburn Square. Top of page Campus Safety and Annual Security Report Clery Act Disclosure Wichita State University is committed to assisting all members of the Wichita State community in providing for their own safety and security. The Annual Security and Fire Report is now available at wichita.edu/annualsecurityreport. If you would like to receive a printed version of the combined Annual Security and Fire Report, you can stop by the University Police Department and request a copy or you can request that a free copy be mailed to you by calling 316-978-3450. The report, which is accessible either at the website or in printed form contain information regarding campus security and personal safety including topics such as: crime prevention, fire safety, university police law enforcement authority, crime reporting policies, disciplinary procedures and other matters of importance related to security and safety on campus. They also contain information about crime statistics for the three previous calendar years concerning reported crimes that occurred on campus; in certain off-campus buildings or property owned or controlled by Wichita State University; and on public property within, or immediately adjacent to and accessible from the campus. Top of page Still have questions? Admissions Staff Ask a Shocker 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©