Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH HEALTH INFORMATICS & HLTH INFORMTN MGMT Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 HIHIM 400 Health Care Language for Health Informatics and Information Management (3) Designed for HIHIM majors to compile a working vocabulary in health care and to explain clinical documentation. Strengthens student competence to read/write/comprehend and speak the language used by health providers/administrators. Employs a variety of tools (reading, writing, listening exercises; electronic health record documents/case studies; mini-lectures on body systems). Practices written and verbal communication to achieve proficiency. Prerequisite: BIOL 118 and BIOL 119. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 400 HIHIM 405 Introduction to Health Data Analytics (3) Covers the process of and tolls used in evaluating data using analytical and logical reasoning to examine each component of the health data. Offered: jointly with BIOST 405. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 405 HIHIM 407 Foundations for Healthcare Vocabularies (3) Focuses on health concepts, documentation, healthcare taxonomies, and clinical vocabularies, terminologies, classifications, and nomenclatures required for health data analysis, clinical coding, and clinical systems associated with the electronic health record. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 407 HIHIM 408 Management Concepts with HIM Applications (4) Covers management principles from a health information management perspective and core management functions of planning, organizing, staffing, delegating, leading, and controlling; theories of management, both traditional and contemporary; leadership concepts in HIM; change management; human resource management; employment law; performance management, and HIM organizational structure. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 408 HIHIM 409 Disease Concepts for Managers (4) Develops clinical concepts in medicine for health care personnel who interact with medical information in the workplace. Presents methods of diagnosis and treatment, including pharmacology, with an emphasis on information management and health information systems. Prerequisite: BIOL 118; BIOL 119; and HIHIM 400. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 409 HIHIM 410 Foundations in Health Information Management (4) Focuses on the basic of health information through study of the creation and maintenance of health records, access to and retention of health information, accreditation, licensure and professional standards in acute care hospitals and alternate care facilities. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 410 HIHIM 411 Health Data Management (3) Addresses the governance and management of healthcare data through exploration of data assets and linking the assets to standards and quality. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 411 HIHIM 412 Healthcare Coding (5) Covers healthcare coding principles for International Classification of Diseases (ICD) and Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) code sets used in diagnosis and procedure code assignments for research and reimbursement by healthcare providers in all settings. Prerequisite: HIHIM 409. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 412 HIHIM 413 Revenue Cycle Management (3) Covers the revenue cycle management of health information administration. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 413 HIHIM 414 ICD, Clinical Documentation and Revenue Management (3) In depth study of ICD code sets for diagnosis and procedure coding, clinical documentation to support ICD code assignment, and reimbursement methodologies which use the ICD code set to determine payment models. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 414 HIHIM 415 CPT/HCPCS, Clinical Documentation and Revenue Management (5) in depth study of CPT/HCPCS code sets for procedure coding, clinical documentation to support CPT/HCPCS code assignment, and reimbursement methodologies which use the CPT/HCPCS code sets to determine payment models. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 415 HIHIM 420 Healthcare Computer Systems and Electronic Health Records (5) Current health information systems and the role of health informatics; technology infrastructure and health informatics standards, electronic health records, definitions, functions, issues, and barriers; hospitals, ambulatory care, home health and long-term care and computer applications. Prerequisite: HIHIM 410; HIHIM 411. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 420 HIHIM 421 Health Information Systems Analysis (5) Examines lifestyle systems development process and tools, project management and team coordination, analysis of health information systems, and user requirements. Prerequisite: HIHIM 420. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 421 HIHIM 425 Research Design and Statistics for HIHIM (3) Explores healthcare and research statistics. Addresses hospital statistics, used to calculate usage levels of heathcare resources and outcomes of clinical operations, and research statistics, used to summarize and describe significant characteristics of a data set, and to make inferences about a population based on data collected from a sample. In addition, principles of research are described, including the Institutional Review Board process. Offered: jointly with BIOST 406/STAT 406. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 425 HIHIM 450 Healthcare Delivery and Policy (5) Organization of healthcare services across delivery systems - both governmental (federal, state, local) and private. Financing health care services and related policy issues. Competencies and content areas related to public health profession, science, and human health. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 450 HIHIM 454 Finance Concepts for Healthcare Managers (4) Covers financial concepts applied to today's healthcare environment, financial management tools, and budgeting. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 454 HIHIM 455 Leadership and Strategic Management (4) Focuses on leadership and strategic management for enterprise-wide health information and information governance initiatives; evaluates organizational ethics and culture for situations impacting HIM and health informatics; and analyze individual interpersonal skills and professional and personal goals. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 455 HIHIM 456 Quality Improvement in Healthcare (5) Focuses on quality improvement, risk management and utilization management; management of quality improvement systems; use of data systems in quality assurance; health data retrieval, analysis and presentation. Recommended: statistics; medical terminology. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 456 HIHIM 460 Professional Pathways (3) Explores the development of management skills and competencies, and a seminar through site experience in healthcare facilities with campus and clinical faculty. Prerequisite: HIHIM 410 View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 460 HIHIM 461 Professional Development and Networking (2) Addresses the professional portfolio and mentoring, and preparation for the national credentialing examination for Registered Health information Administrator (RHIA). View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 461 HIHIM 462 Capstone Project (5) Explores applied management using a formal capstone project in a healthcare setting. Prerequisite: HIHIM 460. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 462 HIHIM 470 Legal Concepts for Health Fields (3) Examines principles of law as applied to the health field, with reference to health information management. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 470 HIHIM 480 HIM Operations and Project Management (5) Provides the tools and experiences useful for health informatics and information management professionals in the daily functions and activities of a HIM department, and in the controlling the activities of a health care project. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 480 HIHIM 490 Special Topics (1-5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 490 HIHIM 499 Independent Study (1-5, max. 5) View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 499 HIHIM 508 Health Information Management systems and Leadership (3) Provides a high level framework of health informatics and health information management practice. Covers practice related systems with emphasis on enterprise information governance, patient record organization, content and structure, and associated enterprise business functions and processes to provide foundation for understanding the practice. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 508 HIHIM 509 Introduction to Health Informatics (3) Healthcare is one of today's most information-intense industries. Yet healthcare delivery organizations have been slow to adopt advanced health information technology (HIT). It is imperative that future health care leaders have a deep understanding of and belief in HIT spanning the spectrum of health delivery systems. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 509 HIHIM 510 Enterprise Systems and Electronic Health Records (3) Covers industry drivers, development, compliance framework, and certification of electronic health record systems status and operations addressed through strategic decision making and leadership: data movement among enterprise clinical, business, administrative systems to legal health record; and barrier and benefit assessment within major institutional culture and technology initiative changes. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 510 HIHIM 520 Law, Policy, and Ethics in Health Information (3) Explores the laws, policies, and issues involved in oversight and management of health data and health information systems. Defines the legal health record and the requirements, role, and uses. Covers the legal and ethical framework, issues and concepts, and the role of e-discovery on the emerging health data environment. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 520 HIHIM 524 Health Data Analytics (3) Ken White Healthcare organizations generate a large number of clinical performance metrics. Extracted data from different data systems is used to display relevant metrics in dashboards that are meaningful to senior leadership. Statistical tools may determine if differences in performance are significant and what factors are associated with the differences. Predictive models may then be built and inputs varied to obtain performance improvements. Recommended: beginner Excel skills. Offered: jointly with BIOST 507; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 524 HIHIM 525 Healthcare Databases and Applications (3) Provides an overview of data models, architecture platforms, and relational database theory and technology. Covers design and uses of databases in patient record systems, registries and indexes, and health databases, security, privacy and ethical issues, database design, data integrity, field properties, tables, reports, queries, and data retrieval. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 525 HIHIM 530 Healthcare Privacy and Security in the e-Environment (3) Covers the laws, regulations, policies, and practice related to the confidentiality, privacy, and security of health information in an electronic environment. Federal and state laws and regulations require specific performance in the acquisition, use, storage, and maintenance of health information. Examines systems and practices. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 530 HIHIM 535 Clinical Vocabularies and Terminologies (3) Covers clinical terminologies, classifications, and mapping, which provides information on taxonomies and metadata, information objects, and classification theory in organizing information in an electronic system. Includes current initiatives in terminologies and data mapping in electronic health record systems. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 535 HIHIM 540 Consumer Health Informatics (3) Covers community and consumer health informatics associated with health services provides; electronic health records that address internal and external standards; accreditation and regulatory requirements needed to provide quality care; and health information exchange from policy to implementation. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 540 HIHIM 550 Health Care Information Governance (3) Covers the conceptualization, design, and management of data initiatives and knowledge needed by the healthcare enterprise. Reviews data integrity principles and guidelines to determine methodology for evaluation development and management of internal and external information requirements. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 550 HIHIM 552 Healthcare Business Intelligence (3) Examines business and enterprise data used to inform enterprise healthcare business intelligence and decision making to underpin and meet strategic and operational business goals and objectives. Performance metrics, business data analytics, data mining, predictive modeling, business process modeling, data visualization and other tools used to enable healthcare program and product performance assessment are featured. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 552 HIHIM 555 EHR/HI Systems Operations and Improvement (3) Addresses leadership and management of an organization's health information assets that are required as the nation transitions to interoperable health information systems. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 555 HIHIM 556 Healthcare Quality and Technology (3) Explores the current healthcare environment related to healthcare safety issues. Examines an overview of major health and safety challenges and responses; focusing on the impact of the issues in improving health and safety in healthcare and information resources needed. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 556 HIHIM 560 Special Topics in Health Informatics (3) Presents problem solving opportunities on health industry information issues, strategies and unmet challenges. Topics reflect the current state, progress, and future expectations faced by healthcare and health information managers. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 560 HIHIM 598 Project Management (3) Focuses on applying leadership readiness at the enterprise level; informatics and information governance challenges; research and project management resources; communication management strategies; and the impact of technology from management oversight to health services delivery. Offers an opportunity to practice a key role of leadership: transforming organizational culture by effective implementation of change. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 598 HIHIM 599 Capstone Project (3) Provides a practice-based problem solving experience that draws on health informatics and information management; health industry knowledge; leadership and management strategies; and applies project management skills to design, plan, and implement a management project in healthcare and healthcare related organizations. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: HIHIM 599 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022