Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries News and Media You are here Home About News & Media Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Temple University’s communication channels celebrate the Temple story and the ways in which our students, faculty, alumni and staff power the world. Strategic Marketing and Communications Strategic Marketing and Communications supports Temple University’s strategic priorities across media platforms. The team’s expertise spans the entire range of marketing and communications capabilities, from digital advertising, web development and social media to content strategy, design and videography. Contact members of the Strategic Marketing and Communications staff. News Center Keep up to date on research breakthroughs, campus news, student success, university events, faculty achievements and much more via Temple University’s News Center. Explore the News Center. Social Media Join the Temple community and celebrate your Owl pride on Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, YouTube, Pinterest and Twitter. Add us on Snapchat. While in the Snapchat application, point your camera at our snapcode (the image below) and tap your screen to add Temple University as a friend. Temple Now Stay in the know with Temple Now, the university’s daily email for staff, faculty, alumni and friends that includes news, announcements and events. Learn more about Temple Now. Temple Magazine Temple magazine celebrates the university’s most innovative people, research, services, programs and ideas. In-depth features, alumni profiles and news briefs tell the Temple story through issues published three times a year and throughout the year online. Learn more about Temple magazine. Nutshell Tap into student life, news and events at Temple and across the city through Nutshell, the university's weekly email for students. Subscribe to Nutshell using your Temple email. 'The Temple News' First published in 1921, this award-winning, student-run newspaper publishes weekly and is editorially independent of the university. Today, it is distributed free across the university’s Philadelphia-area campuses. Learn more about The Temple News. Temple University Press Temple University Press is best known as a publisher of books in the social sciences and the humanities; it also produces books about Philadelphia and the surrounding region. Temple’s regional list encompasses scholarly books, coffee-table books and books about art, birding, culture, fishing, hiking, sports teams, and the urban and suburban environments. Learn more about Temple University Press. TUTV (Temple University Television) TUTV is the university’s digital cable station that produces original programming from across Temple’s schools, colleges and campuses. The station also creates content in partnership with cultural organizations, community groups and professional media companies. Learn more about TUTV. WRTI 90.1 FM One of the top-rated public radio stations in the country, WRTI has more than 18,000 active members. Listeners throughout the tristate region and around the world listen to WRTI, on the radio and online, to hear the very best classical and jazz. Learn more about WRTI. WHIP Student Radio and WRFT Ambler Temple’s student-run radio stations, WHIP and WRFT offer many opportunities for students interested in advertising, music, news, programming, promotions, production and sports. Learn more about WRFT and WHIP. Go back to AboutMore in News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.