Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Dedman College Diversity and Inclusion Office Home About Diversity Matters Welcome Dedman College is committed to advancing the University Strategic Plan’s goals regarding diversity, the Black University Forum Action Plan, and University Moving Forward Together Plan in the mission to help our campus become a more welcoming, equitable, and inclusive environment for all its members. We work to make all students enjoy a living and learning environment in which they can thrive and prepare for the brightest futures. LEARN MORE >> Diversity Matters About Us Initiatives Events DC ODI Resources Our work is centered in the following values: Care and Compassion Care and compassion characterize our curricular and co curricular programs and activities. Learn More Diversity We must be committed to building and sustaining a community that embraces diversity and fosters a climate where equity and respect are inherent. Learn More Equity We must confront discriminatory behaviors and work to eliminate structural inequalities. Learn More Inclusion Every person within Dedman College and at SMU should feel as though they belong. Learn More SMU Announcements Maria Dixon Hall SMU Chief Diversity Officer Statement from President Turner SMU Cultural Intelligence Initiative Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube