Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu umTech - Information Technology Services Service Support Smart Tech Students Solutions Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Search the Technology Resource Locator (TRL) All lab and smart classroom information can be found on TRL Need Help with Technology? Request technical support via umHelpdesk Find solutions to your technical problems umTech does our very best to deliver answers quickly Service Catalog Browse a collection of ITS services offered PreviousNext Take Action Enter a Service Request ITS Service Catalog AskTom Contact Us Connect with umTech Facebooktwitter Home umTech - Information Technology Services Technology — it's a wonderful thing! umTech is your starting point for Information Technology Services here at the UofM. We're here because technology is such a huge part of the college experience; No matter what your comfort level is with using advanced technologies, umTech will help you get up to speed. We want you to be able to learn, teach, work, and stay connected through technology at the University of Memphis. We answer your calls, visit staff and faculty offices, meet with you online or in our office to discuss technology. We also fix problems and host training sessions that could improve your performance and productivity. We will help you wrap your brain around the most innovative campus tools. With our help, you will be using technology to create, learn, explore, teach, and conduct business. Operational Hours for the Service Desk Call the ITS Service Desk (901.678.8888) any day of the week! (Excluding Some Holidays) Monday — Friday, 8:00 am - 8:00 pm Saturday — 10:00 am - 2:00 pm Sunday — 1:00 pm - 5:00 pm You can contact the Service Desk for assistance with technical login difficulties or issues. Incoming calls after hours will be handled by voicemail services. If you require assistance after 8:00 pm, please leave a message or submit a service request. Virtual Private Network (VPN) Virtual Private Network (VPN) provides secure access to restricted University data using an off-campus computer. The VPN is required when using any home computer or laptop to access restricted data remotely. When working on the university’s VPN, we recommend that the latest Microsoft, Android, or Apple OS updates and security patches are applied, and that university data is handled in accordance with the University’s Data Security Policy. To connect to the VPN, you must install a VPN client. A VPN client is software installed on your computer/laptop. This software allows access to a service installed on a central server on campus. After you install the virtual private network (VPN) client, you can connect to the University's VPN from anywhere. There are many UofM services that will now require VPN to be installed and used. For more information about the VPN and how to install, see our VPN page. Zoom Video Conferencing Enterprise video conferencing with real-time messaging and content sharing. Join anywhere, on Any Device. Simplified video conferencing and messaging across any device with up to 300 participants in a meeting. Zoom meeting syncs with your calendar system and delivers streamlined enterprise-grade video conferencing from your desktop and mobile device. Enable quick adoption with meeting capabilities that make it easy to start, join, and collaborate across any device. See our Zoom page for more information, documentation, and training. Microsoft Teams is Here! That’s correct. Microsoft Teams is available to all faculty, staff and students. Microsoft Teams is the hub for group collaboration in Microsoft 365 that integrates people, content, and applications. Teams brings simplicity to teamwork by joining collaboration, sharing, and communication all under one platform. See our page about Microsoft Teams for more information. Lab Hours of Operations Lambuth May 6th - August 16th Lambuth Campus Labs, VJ - 203; Monday - Friday; 8:00 am - 4:30 pm Lambuth Campus Labs, VJ - 205; Monday - Friday; 8:00 am - 4:30 pm Lambuth Campus Labs, WSU- 006; Monday - Friday; 8:00 am - 4:30 pm Closed Independence Day, July 4, 2022 Main Campus Labs The Tech Hub (UC 265) Monday - Friday, 8:00 am - 4:00 pm Closed Saturday/Sunday Closed Independence Day, July 4, 2022 McWherter Library Learning Commons (first floor only) Closed Independence Day, July 4, 2022 See library site for hours. Access to McWherter Library limited to first floor. Valid, current University ID card required. Use card swipe device at front door for access during these hours only. No public access. Practice social distancing -- no groups or shared spaces. DUO Account Security DUO provides a second form of verification in addition to a password when logging in. Users are encouraged to install the DUO mobile app. You can learn more about DUO on our DUO page. DUO Multi-factor Authentication is required for all employees. Multi-factor authentication strengthens the protection of your information by adding a step to confirm your identity when you access certain UofM services and sites. Note: Mobile device users are encouraged to update to the latest version of iOS or Android OS for optimal security and functionality. Effective December 1, 2020, DUO Security will end support of the DUO Mobile application for iOS 11 and Android 7. Note: The DUO application may be restricted in some international countries, and clients may need to download the DUO Mobile APK App directly from DUO website. DUO Tokens The DUO token is a small, thumb-sized device that generates 6-digit codes or tokens to be used during DUO sign-on. The device requires no internet connection, no phone number, and is suitable for situations where the mobile app or phone cannot be used, such as in secure areas or when traveling. DUO tokens must be assigned to specific user accounts and cannot be shared. For faculty and staff, a DUO token can be requested via the following Service Desk form. DUO tokens are available for $20 and can be charged to a departmental index #. Tokens that are lost or damaged are subject to a $20 replacement fee. Students can order a DUO Token on this web page. Note: If you cannot log into iAm, you will need to contact the Service Desk for assistance. Infographics Requesting and Using DUO Token Adding a Mobile Phone Enabling Office Phone to Use DUO (Faculty & Staff Only) Using DUO Mobile App Deleting a Number or Device in DUO Full DUO Documentation View Full DUO Account Security Documentation OneDrive Available to All UofM Employees Did You Know OneDrive, Microsoft’s cloud storage service, is available for all UofM employees? This service provides a solution for sharing documents with internal and external (non-UofM) colleagues while working on research, class projects or administrative collaboration. OneDrive has 5TB (terabytes) of available storage space. See IT6005 Campus Data Security Policy and the ITS Data Storage Guidelines for usage guidelines. Each UofM faculty, staff, or student are allotted 5TB of storage space in OneDrive. To access OneDrive, visit the webmail site or sign into the OneDrive site and log in using your email and password. Look for the App Launcher (nine tiles in a square) at the upper left of the screen, near the Office 365 logo. Select OneDrive and let the collaboration begin. For more information about OneDrive see our OneDrive Page. Faculty and staff also can place a service request with their LSP (local service provider) to install and link OneDrive to their desktop. Syncing all of your files to your OneDrive provides a safe backup that can be accessed online. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/31/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.