Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Film and Media Arts MFA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Film and Media Arts MFA Apply Request More Info Film and Media Arts MFA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Film and Media Arts MFA Explore the expanding boundaries between filmmaking approaches, driven by choices of subject and style, and learn to take creative control with the Master of Fine Arts in Film and Media Arts in Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. With an emphasis on independent film and video, this 54-credit master’s degree will help you develop the skills necessary to become an incisive, socially conscious filmmaker and pursue a professional career in film, video or digital media. Through exposure to both theory and practice, you’ll develop a fuller understanding of the history of film, the rise of video and interactive media, and research and screenwriting best practices. You’ll be given the option to choose from one of three tracks, including media arts, narrative and documentary filmmaking, and writing. You’ll also be required to complete up to six credit hours of thesis material, conceptualizing, developing, writing and ultimately creating a final creative project. Thesis projects take the form of a complete sound, film or video production; a feature film script; or a completed work in an alternative media form, including computer-generated media, interactive media, installations or newly emerging technologies. Taken together with the master program’s comprehensive exams, the curriculum’s synthesis of theory and practice serves to develop film and media artists with personal, informed voices. As a Film and Media Arts student, you’ll have access to the department’s cutting-edge production equipment, including an array of film cameras. Learn more about Film and Media Arts Department facilities. Classes & Curriculum The Master of Fine Arts in Film and Media curriculum exposes students to the vast array of new media forms and expression, with an emphasis on independent film and video. Core courses include Cinematography Workshop, Film History and Theory, Media Arts Theory-Practice, MFA Colloquium (two terms), Thesis Production Workshop, Videography and Writing for Media I. Learn more about Film and Media Arts MFA courses. Related Graduate Degrees Documentary Arts and Visual Research MFA-PhD MediaXarts: Cinema for New Technologies and Environments MA Related Graduate Certificates Documentary Arts and Ethnographic Research Certificate Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Fine Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Advisors in the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts help you chart your course through your degree program and are available to answer any questions you may have about your preferred area of study. Sarah Drury, associate professor and director of Film and Media Arts graduate studies, is the advisor for Film and Media Arts MFA students. Phone: 215-204-3468 Email: sarah.drury@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations give you the opportunity to gain stage performance or production experience, express yourself without classroom restrictions, and network with other film and theater professionals. In addition, you can make friends and enhance your social life. Consider joining one or more of the following clubs. Delta Kappa Alpha is a selective national organization whose mission is to foster lifelong character, collaborative and creative storytelling, ethical and productive business practices, philanthropic action, and fraternal bonds by and between students of the cinematic arts. Film in Color is an organization geared toward creating a welcoming space for students of color within Temple’s Film Department, affording the opportunity to come together to create, discuss, learn from and network with one another. The Greater Philadelphia Film Office Next connects Philadelphia-area students, recent graduates and rising content creators with industry leaders. Mise-en-Femme is a production organization aimed at encouraging women to work together to gain knowledge and hands-on experience in the art of filmmaking. They also run Temple Women’s Fest, which is a showcase of the efforts of some of the most influential female filmmakers. The Queer Film Collective’s mission is to empower queer filmmakers and explore queer film both in theory and practice. Both queer and straight students are welcome to join. Temple Film Collective is a group of Temple student independent filmmakers who produce their own films and host an online film festival. The University Media Screening Society meets once a week to screen a film from Temple's Media Library. Sometimes, screenings are substituted with special events. Wandering Studios is a student film organization focused on helping students create short films throughout the semester. Learn more about Film and Media Arts student clubs and organizations. Study Away Graduate students, who can find the time within their programs to participate, are welcome to study abroad. Temple offers opportunities to study in Japan, London, Rome and Venice. Students can also opt to spend a semester or summer in Los Angeles. Learn more about Temple’s study away programs. Accreditation The Film and Media Arts program is associated with the University Film and Video Association, an international organization of university and industry professionals working in the field of media production. CA-FMA-MFA Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Film and Media Arts MFA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info