Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content APW Undergraduate Undergraduate UG Concentrations Minors Course Descriptions How to Apply UG Academic Records and Advising UG Concentrations UG Concentrations Applied Physiology and Health Management Undergraduate Specialization Sport Management Undergraduate Concentration Sport Performance Leadership Undergraduate Concentration Minors Minors Applied Physiology Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership Master's Degrees Master's Degrees M.S. in Health Promotion Management M.S. in Sport Management Ph.D. in Education Ph.D. in Education Research Wellness Wellness Wellness PRW1 and PRW 2 Wellness Course Descriptions Wellness Class Schedules Faculty Frequently Asked Questions Wellness Facebook Page ☰ Sport Management Undergraduate Concentration B.S. Applied Physiology and Sport Management B.S. in Applied Physiology and Sport Management Concentrations-APHM, SM, SPL Sport Management Undergraduate Concentration Bachelor of Science in APSM with a Sport Management Concentration Sport Management (SM) is a concentration within the undergraduate major in Applied Physiology and Sport Management (APSM). This concentration provides a rigorous curriculum for understanding management principles required of professionals in the industry of sport. The required introductory class for students interested in applying for the Sport Management Concentration is APSM 2310 - Contemporary Issues in Sport Management. Academic coursework and experiential learning opportunities within this program prepare students for a variety of possible career paths including: Sports marketing Management of professional, collegiate or amateur sport organizations Representation of professional athletes Sport public relations Sport facility and event management The APSM major leads to a Bachelor of Science with an emphasis in either Applied Physiology and Enterprise or Sport Management. Both concentrations require coursework in the physiological sciences and business. The core curriculum is required of all APSM majors and introduces the discipline; establishes the scientific basis of health, fitness and human performance; introduces the business principles and skills necessary to establish and maintain a sports-related or fitness-related business; and familiarizes students with the legal and ethical aspects of the fitness, health and sport industries. The program culminates in a mentored senior project. The two primary content areas of science and management are integrated by the organizing principle of evidence-based practice, which parallels the mission of the Simmons School of Education and Human Development to integrate theory, research and practice. Esports Business Management Certificate SMU works with some of the most accomplished names in the world of esports. From local entrepreneurs, to business owners around the country, you will learn from some of the best and brightest who are involved in just about every aspect of Esports: team building, the business of esports (management, finance, risks, and more), fan engagement, streaming strategies, sponsorship, tournament design, and much more. The Esports Business Management Certificate consists of six required 12 contact hour courses (72 contact hours total) which offer a mix of asynchronous material and weekly live online meetings with your instructor. You may complete the recorded asynchronous material at your own pace prior to each corresponding live session. The certificate can be completed in as few as 6 months. Sport Management Undergraduate Concentration Curriculum Minor Our Faculty Professional Development Center Tweets by SMUSportMgmt Upcoming Events Contact Sport Management Contact Us 214-768-2776 smusportmanagement@smu.edu Request Information Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall 3101 University Blvd, Suite 306 Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter