Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Office of University Communications Office of University Communications Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Forward Menu Main Nav BC Forward COVID Testing Back Back Close Updates Overview Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. Faculty & Staff Students & Parents Visitors COVID Testing Results COVID Testing Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars Home Updates July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars Updates Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. July 26, 2021 Dear International Student, We hope your summer is going well and that you and your loved ones are healthy and safe. As you are aware, for the well-being and health of the community, Boston College is requiring that all students, staff, and faculty be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to be on campus this academic year. We have received many questions about this policy and protocols for international students and we are now able to address your concerns and provide additional information. You should be doing everything you can now to get fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in your home countries before arriving at Boston College. If you cannot get vaccinated in your home countries, and are able to come to the U.S. earlier and have a place to stay, then we strongly encourage you to get vaccinated as soon as you arrive. Vaccines are readily available in the U.S. Please do not enter the U.S. as a tourist with the expectation that you can then simply change your status to student. This is not possible. You should only be entering the U.S. in F-1 student status. New students are able to come up to 30 days before the start date on their I-20 form. If you are an undergraduate student, please be aware that you cannot move into your on-campus residence earlier than approved arrival dates. We are very aware that vaccines still are not readily accessible in many parts of the world, and also that you may not receive your visa in time to arrive in the U.S. much before classes begin. The University has therefore put in place the following protocol for students who absolutely cannot be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 before arriving at BC. These guidelines and protocols are subject to change. Undergraduate and Exchange Students Living On Campus All fully vaccinated students should upload their COVID-19 vaccine information into AGORA. You should have already received instructions on how to do this by University Health Services. All students living on campus will be tested for COVID-19 upon moving into their residence halls at their assigned time. Any international student who is not fully vaccinated (defined as two weeks after your final shot) will be given a vaccine by University Health Services upon arrival (either first or second dose as is required.) The three vaccines that will be offered are those authorized by the FDA: Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, or Moderna. You are urged to seek full vaccination. The University is looking into providing alternate BC housing in close proximity to campus for any international student who is not able to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 before arrival. Shuttle service will be provided for you to main campus. You can attend classes and utilize all campus facilities, but you will be required to wear a mask whenever you cannot physically distance. Once you are fully vaccinated (two weeks after your final shot), you will then be allowed to move into your permanent housing assignment and will no longer be required to wear a mask when you cannot physically distance. Undergraduate, Exchange and Graduate Students Living Off Campus All fully vaccinated students should upload their COVID-19 vaccine information into AGORA. You should have already received instructions on how to do this by University Health Services. All students will be tested for COVID-19 upon arrival to campus. Any international student who is not able to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 (two weeks after your final shot) will be given a vaccine by University Health Services upon arrival (either first or second dose as is required.) The three vaccines that will be offered are those authorized by the FDA: Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, or Moderna. Any international student who is not yet fully vaccinated against COVID-19 can attend classes and utilize all campus facilities, but will be required to wear a mask whenever you cannot physically distance. If you have not already done so, please complete the following survey so that we have information about your vaccination status in advance. International Student Vaccine Survey If you have any questions about the above BC COVID-19 vaccinations requirements please email covidvaccination@bc.edu. We truly appreciate your cooperation in helping to make the BC community a safe environment for everyone this fall, and we look forward to welcoming you to campus at the end of August! Sincerely, Adrienne Nussbaum Director/Associate Dean Office of International Students & Scholars Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College