Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index University Student Housing Menu Search TTU Housing End of the Year Banquet The student leadership organizations: National Residence Hall Honorary (NRHH), The Residence Halls Association (RHA), Student Staff Leadership Council (SSLC), and Raiders Helping Others (RHO) invite you to nominate deserving individuals and events for recognition at the End of the Year Leadership Celebration. Each year University Student Housing recognizes the unique contributions of our student leaders, student staff, and professional staff, by offering the opportunity for student leaders, student staff, professional staff, and faculty to nominate USH student leaders and staff who have made a difference this academic year! Take a moment and show how much you appreciate the work, efforts, and passions of a deserving USH student leader and/or staff person! Awards and descriptions are listed below: Pro Staff Advisor of the Year The Advisor of the Year award is created to recognize a Professional Staff member that has gone above and beyond in supporting the work of departmental student organization(s). This award recognizes the advisor whose ability to support, educate, and encourage the student organization goes above and beyond the expected norm. This advisor has demonstrated remarkable dedication to, and support of the organization. Nominations for this category must come from a member of the student organization that the nominee advises. The recipient of this award must: Be currently employed by University Student Housing as a professional staff member. Have been appointed (or delegated) the role of advisor to a University Student Housing student organization that is currently in good standing with the Center of Campus Life. (Organizational committee advisors are eligible for this award so long as their parent organization is in good standing. i.e. CUTE Club Advisor, so long as RHA is in good standing.) Have attended 75% or more of all meetings and events for their respective organization. Have served as the organizational advisor for at least one full semester. Consistently display above average levels of support to organizational officers or members. **Please note: Student staff members that serve as liaisons to Complex Council are not eligible for this award. Submit a Nomination for the Pro Staff Advisor of the Year Award Here Complex Council of the Year The Complex Council of the Year award was designed to recognize the outstanding accomplishments, overall community impact, efforts to engage residents, and collaborative teamwork of a Complex Council during the current academic year. The recipient of this award must: Be currently in good standing with the Center of Campus Life. Be in good standing with the Residence Halls Association. Have met the expectations of a Complex Council as set forth in the RHA constitution (had representation at all meetings, held a Complex Council at least once per month, etc.). Consistently display above average levels of support to the residents of their respective complex. Demonstrate active participation from residents at meeting and events, beyond the executive board. Apply for the Complex Council of the Year Award Here Organizational Officer of the Year The Organizational Officer of the Year award is designed to recognize an individual for their ongoing and above average contributions to their respective University Student Housing student organization(s) and to campus residents. Recipients of this award must: Be currently enrolled as a Texas Tech student and in good standing with University Student Housing and Texas Tech University. Be currently serving as an elected or appointed officer within RHA, NRHH, SSLC, and/or RHO. Have served in their officer role for at least one full semester. Meet the minimum qualification of their position, as outlined in their constitution and by-laws. Represent a student organization that is in good standing with the Center for Campus Life, and, if applicable, the Residence Halls Association. **Complex Council officers are NOT eligible to win in this award category. They should be nominated for the Complex Council officers of the Year award. Submit a Nomination for the Organizational Officer of the Year Award Here Commitment to RHA Award The Commitment to RHA award is designed to recognize the frequent and outstanding contributions of an on-campus resident to the success of the Residence Halls Association. The winner of this award will be someone that supports the RHA mission of Leadership Development, Service, and Programming. This person will not be an RHA elected officer, but rather a student that frequently attends meetings and events and can be seen helping support the organization when no one has expected them to do so. The recipient of this award must: Be a current Texas Tech student living on campus. Be in good standing with Texas Tech University and University Student Housing. Not be nominated in the Organizational Officer of the Year or Complex Council Officer of the Year award categories. Meet the minimum qualifications of their position, as outlined in their constitution and bylaws. Not be an RHA executive board member. Submit a Nomination for the Commitment to the RHA Award Here NRHH Member of the Year As a leadership focused honorary, National Residence Hall Honorary embodies the values of Service and Recognition. Similarly, the NRHH member of the year award recognizes a member that frequently participates in NRHH functions, submits OTM's, and embodies the organizational values. The recipient of this award will: Be in good standing with Texas Tech University and University Student Housing. Be an active member of the Texas Tech chapter of the National Residence Hall Honorary. Have fulfilled their obligations as an organizational member, as outlined in the NRHH constitution. Be a positive representation of the National Residence Hall Honorary. **NRHH executives are not eligible for this award. Submit a Nomination for the NRHH Member of the Year Award Here RHO Member of the Year This award recognizes a member of Raiders Helping Others (RHO) that has shown a continued focus on the growth and development of the organization and also to the organizations service work. This person consistently attends meetings, service events, fundraising efforts, and social activities. This individual is a positive force within the organization. The recipient of this award will: Be in good standing with Texas Tech University and University Student Housing. Be a current and active member of Raiders Helping Others. Have paid all dues and associated trip fees. Have met all member expectations as set forth by the executive team and within the organizational constitution/ bylaws. Have participated in multiple RHO service events. **RHO executives are not eligible for this award. Submit a Nomination for the RHO Member of the Year Award Here SSLC Member of the Year This award recognizes a member of the Student Staff Leadership Council that has shown a continued focus on the growth and development of the organization and also to the organizations core value of creating a positive working environment for all student staff. The recipient of this award will: Be in good standing with University Student Housing and Texas Tech University. Have served as a voting member of the Student Staff Leadership Council (SSLC) during the 2021-2022 academic year. Have met all member expectations as set forth by the executive team and within the organizational constitution/ bylaws. **SSLC executive board members are not eligible for this award. Submit a Nomination for the SSLC Member of the Year Award Here Disney Customer Service Excellence The Disney Customer Service Excellence Award is designed to recognize a student staff member that consistently goes above and beyond in delivering exemplary service to the guests with which they interact. The recipient will embrace, and be a role model for others. The recipient of this award: Is in good standing with Texas Tech University and University Student Housing. Is currently employed by University Student Housing, and has served as a student staff member for the department for at least one full semester. Has frequent interaction with "guests" as a component of their job responsibilities. Fulfills all job responsibilities as outlined in their job description. Submit a Nomination for the Disney Customer Service Excellence Award Here Volunteer of the Year A servant-leader shares power, puts the needs of others first and helps people develop. The Volunteer of the Year award recognizes a student that exemplifies the true definition of a servant leader. The selected individual always puts the needs of others before their own, does what they can to help others, and is devoted to giving back through service to self and community. They work hard as a member of the team, not just for personal gain. The recipient of this award will: Be a current on-campus resident at Texas Tech, be employed by USH, or be an official member of a USH student organization. Be in good standing with Texas Tech University and University Student Housing. Have performed a minimum of 15 documented service hours during the 2021- 2022 academic year. Have made document-able efforts to engage others in community service work. Be a dedicated leader and team member. **The winner of this award, if applicable, may also be nominated during the following year as Texas Tech's nominee for regional 'Volunteer of the Year' at the SWACURH conference. Submit a Nomination for the Volunteer of the Year Award Here Complex Council Officer of the Year The Complex Council Officer of the Year award is designed to recognize an individual for their ongoing and above average contributions to their respective Complex Council and to campus residents. Recipients of this award must: Be currently enrolled as a Texas Tech student and in good standing with University Student Housing and Texas Tech University. Be currently serving as an elected or appointed officer within a Complex Council. Have served in their officer role for at least one full semester (starting on, or before, January 31, 2022). Meet the minimum qualification of their position, as outlined in their constitution and by-laws. Represent a student organization that is in good standing with the Center for Campus Life and the Residence Halls Association. **RHA Senators are eligible to be nominated in this category so long as they are not also nominated for the 'Commitment to RHA' category. Submit a Nomination for the Complex Council Officer of the Year Award Here Emerging Leader of the Year This award was created to recognize the efforts of an individual that has shown potential to excel as a leader within the residence halls. They are an 'up and coming' leader. It is probable that the recipient of this award will have been actively involved within their community through meeting and/or event attendance. They will not have held an official/elected role with the residence hall community. This person's support and 'behind-the-scenes' efforts have been a valuable contribution to the success of others. Recipients of this award must: Be in good standing with University Student Housing and Texas Tech University. Be a current resident, living within the residence halls at Texas Tech University, and be returning to the residence halls for the fall 2022 semester. Not have formally served as an elected officer within any University Student Housing student organization or been employed by University Student Housing. (If you're already leading a group, you're not an 'emerging' leader.) Demonstrate a commitment to continuing their leadership development. **Students elected to leadership roles, such as Complex Council officer, are not eligible for this award** Submit a Nomination for the Emerging Leader of the Year Award Here Passive Program of the Year The Passive Program of the Year award recognizes a program, or series of programs, that has a purpose of either building community or educating community members through a non-active measure. A passive program is defined as a program or event that does not require someone present to operate the program as residents participate. Examples of eligible passive programs can include Door Decs with an educational purpose, floor newsletters, interactive bulletin boards, potty papers, etc. Submit a Nomination for the Passive Program of the Year Award Here Social Program of the Year Building connections between residents is a critical function of residence life. The Social Program of the Year award recognizes the work of an individual or individuals that successfully implemented an event or function that facilitated and fostered social connections between residents. To be recognized in this category, the event must have been planned and implemented by the nominees. (Meaning - organizing a group of students to go to an event that someone else planned does not qualify for recognition in this award category.) **One plaque will be engraved with the name of the winning program. If the winning event was planned by a group, each planner will receive a certificate to recognize their individual contributions. Submit a Nomination for the Social Program of the Year Award Here Educational Program of the Year As an institution of higher education, our core mission is to educate students. The Educational Program of the Year award recognizes a program implemented within the residence halls that helped to educate residents about a subject of the planners choosing. A successful program will engage multiple residents in an educational conversation, lesson, or activity that has a noticeable and lasting impact within the community. The winning nomination will be able to demonstrate the effects of the program and will discuss how the program is unique and significant for today's residents. The winning nomination will also demonstrate the effectiveness of advertising methods for this program. **One plaque will be engraved with the name of the winning program. If the winning event was planned by a group, each planner will receive a certificate to recognize their individual contributions. Submit a Nomination for the Educational Program of the Year Award Here Social Justice Program of the Year The Social Justice Program of the Year recognizes a program or event planned by a residence hall student, or USH organizational member that is targeted at a residence hall audience. This program should make strides to educate others about inclusion on campus. The program should have been planned by a residence hall community member, and should have been targeted at a residence hall audience. The winning Social Justice Program of the Year should: Have been planned and implemented during the 2021-2022 academic year. Have been planned by a USH resident, staff member, or organizational member. Have had a primary objective of educating about a topic of social justice, diversity, or inclusion. **Existing/ annual programs such as Hunger banquet and Tunnel of Oppression are not eligible to receive this award as those are departmental Submit a Nomination for the Social Justice Program of the Year Award Here Commitment to Advocacy Award The Commitment to Advocacy Award recognizes an individual student that advocates for a particular cause, individual, or ideal within the residence hall community. This person is passionate about creating change that impacts their community, the residence halls, Lubbock, or the global society. Examples could be: an individual that is passionate about supporting social justice initiatives, an individual that is devoted to sustainability on campus, an individual that has worked to promote campus safety in a variety of ways, etc. This individual advocates for what they believe in and does so in an appropriate and professional way. The selected individual should have demonstrated their passion in several ways throughout the year, not just through a one-time project or proposal. Recipients of this award will: Be in good standing with Texas Tech University and University Student Housing. Be known by others within their community for their dedication to something they care about. Be an on campus resident or member of University Student Housing student organization. Have made positive, and noticeable contributions to the campus community within their area of focus. Not be a professional staff member within University Student Housing. Submit a Nomination for the Commitment to Advocacy Award Here Learning Community of the Year The Learning Community of the Year award recognizes the outstanding accomplishments of an entire community. The winning community will be a well-connected group of students who frequently engage in community building activities, are academically focused, have minimal judicial concerns, and have been engaged in a constructive partnership with campus stakeholders. The recipient of this award will: Have built and maintained strong connections with campus stakeholders when applicable. Have planned and implemented numerous educational and social programs focused around the theme of the community. Have minimal to no judicial concerns within the community. Frequently engage all members of the community in productive and beneficial activities. Submit a Nomination for the Learning Community of the Year Award Here The Scholar of the Year The Scholar of the Year award recognizes the overall contributions of one student to the residence hall community during the past year. It should encompass considerations from multiple areas including academic performance, leadership, role modeling, and advocacy. This category includes any individual enrolled as a student at the institution who has made outstanding contributions to the residence halls during this past academic year. Nominees could include, but are not limited to students who have made a contribution to their floor, hall, residence life organization, etc. through leadership, motivation, programming, volunteering and/or being a role model for other residents. The Scholar of the Year may have been involved in Undergraduate research, may have helped assist others in preparing for academic coursework, or may have developed programming to support academic success. Recipients of this award will: Be in good standing with Texas Tech University and University Student Housing. Be a strong academic performer, with at least a 3.25 GPA. Be seen by their peers as a role model. Have served as a leader within their community, making positive influences. Submit a Nomination for the Scholar of the Year Award Here Student Staff Member of the Year The Student Assistant of the Year award recognizes the accomplishments of an individual currently employed within University Student Housing. This individual should excel in preforming their daily job functions and should serve as an exemplary student staff member and overall representation of University Student Housing. This award includes those serving as Student Assistants working in all areas of the department including residence hall front desks, Wiggins, Housing Services, and the Welcome Center. This award also includes students serving the department as Residential Tutors or Social Justice Advocates. The recipient of this award must: Be currently employed by University Student Housing. Be in good standing with Texas Tech University and University Student Housing. Be fulfilling the minimum expectations of their position as stated in the job description. Be a role model for other University Student Housing employees. Submit a Nomination for the Student Staff Member of the Year Award Here CA Rookie of the Year The CA Rookie of the Year award recognizes a Community Advisor that has excelled in the first year of their position The recipient of this award will be a student that has built a strong community among their residents, has worked effectively as a team member on their staff, and has exceeded the expectations of their supervisors. The recipient of this award must: Be in good standing with Texas Tech University and University Student Housing. Be currently employed as a Community Adviser. Have worked two or less semesters as a Community Adviser at Texas Tech (starting May 2021 or later). Meet or exceed all expectations listed in their position description. Submit a Nomination for the CA Rookie of the Year Award Here CA Returner of the Year The CA Returner of the Year award recognizes a Community Advisor that has excelled in their position as a returning staff member. The recipient of this award will be a student that has built a strong community among their residents, has worked effectively as a team member on their staff, and has exceeded the expectations of their supervisors. The recipient of this award must: Be in good standing with Texas Tech University and University Student Housing. Be currently employed as a Community Advisor. Have worked more than two semesters as a Community Adviser at Texas Tech (starting January 1, 2021, or earlier). Meet or exceed all expectations listed in their position description. Been an active member of their respective departmental committee (If applicable). **If eligible, the recipient of this award may also be nominated at the regional level for the following year's SWACURH RA of the Year award. Submit a Nomination for the CA Returner of the Year Award Here Award for Leadership Excellence The Award for Leadership Excellence is designed to recognize the outstanding accomplishments of a non-employee student leader that consistently and frequently goes above and beyond their positional duties. Similar to the the Jerry Calumn award for student staff excellence, this award can be considered a 'life-time achievement award' as it recognizes the consistently above average contributions of a student leader. This award recognizes the work of the nominee over the duration of their time as a student at Texas Tech University. Because the nature of this award is designed to recognize the overall achievements of the selected individual spanning over multiple years, it is unlikely that a recipient is in their first year, or that they will receive this award more than once. It is likely that this individual will have served as an elected officer of a University Student Housing student organization for at least a year, but that is not a requirement of this award. The recipient of the Award for Leadership Excellence will: Currently be serving as a student leader within University Student Housing. Have served University Student Housing, and on campus residents as a student leader, for multiple years. Have consistently gone above and beyond their stated job expectations as found in their position description. Be in good standing with Texas Tech University and University Student Housing. Have made a lasting impact beyond their current leadership role. As the capstone award for University Student Housing student staff members, the nominations for this award must include: A completed nomination (below) submitted by the deadline. A 5 slide power point presentation that will be shown during the banquet (guidelines included below). A letter of support from their current or former supervisor (must be attached to this form when submitted). **The selection of the winner for this award will be made with consideration from a student selection committee with additional input from the Assistant Director for Student Leadership Development, the Senior Associate Managing Director and Managing Director of University Student Housing. Submit a Nomination for the Award of Leadership Excellence Here Jerry Calumn Award Jerry Calumn was an exemplary student staff member at Texas Tech University. During his tenure as a CA, Jerry was responsible for many great initiatives including the creation of what is now the Student Staff Leadership Council (SSLC). In honor of his outstanding efforts to the residents of Texas Tech and to his fellow student staff members, the Jerry Calumn award was created in his name. The Jerry Calumn award, frequently referred to as a 'life-time achievement award' recognizes the consistently above average contributions of a student staff member. This award recognizes the work of the nominee over the duration of their time as a student at Texas Tech University. Because the nature of this award is designed to recognize the overall achievements of the selected individual spanning over multiple years, it is unlikely that a recipient is in their first year, or that they will receive this award more than once. The recipient of the Jerry Calumn award will: Currently be employed by University Student Housing. Have served University Student Housing, and on campus residents as a staff member, for multiple years - at least one of which was as a Community Advisor. Have consistently gone above and beyond their stated job expectations. Be in good standing with Texas Tech University and University Student Housing. Have made a lasting impact beyond their current staff team. As the capstone award for University Student Housing student staff members, the nominations for this award must include: A completed nomination (below) submitted by the deadline. A 5 slide power point presentation that will be shown during the banquet (guidelines included below). A letter of support from their current supervisor (must be attached to this form when submitted). **The selection of the winner for this award will be made with consideration from a student selection committee with additional input from the Assistant Director for Student Leadership Development, the Senior Associate Managing Director and Managing Director of University Student Housing. Submit a Nomination for the Jerry Calumn Award Here Quick Links About Us About SLA Leadership Howdy TECHsans Leadership Series Student Leadership Banquet Programming and Outreach LDC Workroom -Programing Materials Request Newsletter Scholarships Signature Events Carol of Lights® MLK Celebration Safe Treat Tunnel of Awareness Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Program Social Justice Advocates Student Leadership and Involvement Student Leadership and Involvement Student Organizations National Residence Hall Honorary Of The Months Raiders Helping Others Member Resources Alternative Service Break (ASB) Service Event Sign Up View Volunteer Transcripts Residence Halls Association Best Dressed Space application Complex Council Bledsoe/Gordon/Sneed Chitwood/Weymouth Coleman Horn/Knapp Hulen/Clement Murray/Carpenter-Wells/Honors Stangel/Murdough Talkington West Village Wall/Gates Student Staff Leadership Council University Student Housing Like University Student Housing on FacebookLike University Student Housing on Facebook Follow University Student Housing on twitterFollow University Student Housing on twitter Subscribe to University Student Housing on YouTubeSubscribe to University Student Housing on YouTube Follow University Student Housing on FlickrFollow University Student Housing on Flickr Follow University Student Housing on PinterestFollow University Student Housing on Pinterest Follow University Student Housing on InstagramFollow University Student Housing on Instagram Address Wiggins Complex, 3211 18th St., Box 41141, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (806) 742-2661 | Fax: (806) 742-2696 Email housing@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 16, 2022 1:39 PM University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information Back Sign Up Information University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information Sign Up Information Back Sign up for Housing Contract Information Off Campus Eligibility Red Raider Express Pass Residence Hall Selection Guide Room Availability Report Prospective Students University Student Housing Prospective Students Back Residence Hall Information University Student Housing Prospective Students Residence Hall Information Back Residence Hall Selection Guide Virtual Brochure Off Campus Eligibility Flex Housing Move In/ Move Out Red Raider Express Pass Room Change Housing Rates University Student Housing Prospective Students Housing Rates Back Housing Rates Rate Calculator Deposit and Billing Information About TTU University Student Housing Prospective Students About TTU Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Spirit & Traditions All Student Organizations Student Recreation Current Residents University Student Housing Current Residents Back My Housing University Student Housing Current Residents My Housing Back Hall Addresses and Mailing information FixIT Maintenance Request View Roommate and Dining Plan Move In/ Move Out Holiday Break Information Room Change Hospitality Services University Student Housing Current Residents Hospitality Services Back University ID Change Dining Plan Get Involved University Student Housing Current Residents Get Involved Back Student Organizations Social Justice Advocates Residence Hall Association Events University Student Housing Current Residents Events Back Carol of Lights® Professing Excellence Safe Treat Tunnel of Awareness End of the Year Banquet MLK Celebration Student Services University Student Housing Current Residents Student Services Back Academic Improvement Plan Housing Scholarships Residential Tutoring About Us University Student Housing About Us Back Leadership Team University Student Housing About Us Leadership Team Back Staff Directory Housing Areas University Student Housing About Us Housing Areas Back Administration and Business Services Facilities Services Residence Life Work for Housing Services and Resources University Student Housing About Us Services and Resources Back Conference Services Marketing Request Form Solicitation Form IT Helpdesk Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index