Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC News > Campus & Community > Alumni > Boston College Marks Laetare Sunday 2022 Laetare Sunday Connell School of Nursing Dean Katherine Gregory will be the speaker at the Boston College Alumni Association event on March 27 Boston College’s 71st annual Laetare Sunday celebration—the BC Alumni Association’s oldest tradition—will take place on March 27 and feature an address by Connell School of Nursing Dean Katherine E. Gregory. Laetare Sunday is the fourth Sunday of Lent and marks the season’s midpoint. The day will begin with Mass at 9:30 a.m. in Conte Forum, with University President William P. Leahy, S.J., presiding. A brunch will immediately follow. Katherine Gregory (Photo by Lee Pellegrini) Gregory, who received a Ph.D. from Boston College in 2005, assumed the deanship of the Connell School last July. She is a nurse leader known for her collaborative partnerships with clinicians and scientists and her research into intestinal disease in preterm infants. Gregory’s research is supported by both the National Institutes of Health and the National Institute of Nursing Research. A fellow of the American Academy of Nursing, she serves as an assistant in biology in the Mucosal Immunology Lab at Massachusetts General Hospital and as a senior scientist in pediatric newborn medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital (BWH). She is the neonatal editor of the Journal of Perinatal and Neonatal Nursing. A member of the Connell School faculty from 2006 to 2014, Gregory helped to establish BC’s Haley Nurse Scientist Program, which funded scholarly activities of both CSON faculty and clinical nurses at BWH. She served as the inaugural Haley Nurse Scientist. For more information about Laetare Sunday, and to register, go to the Alumni Events Calendar. Kathleen Sullivan | University Communications | March 2022 Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College