Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Pharmacy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search College of Pharmacy Prospective Students Pharm.D. Professional Degree Program Graduate Programs Residency & Fellowship Dual Degree Programs Student Handbooks, Policies and Procedures About Us Mission, Vision and Values Vision 2020 Strategic Plan Accreditation PharmD Program Quality Indicators Administration About the Dean Academic Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Policies & Procedures Facilities Visitor Information Directory Academic Departments Pharmacy Practice and Translational Research Pharmacological and Pharmaceutical Sciences Pharmaceutical Health Outcomes and Policy People Current Students Pharm.D. Graduate Students Overview Dual Degree Programs Library and Learning Resources Commencement Student Services Directory Student Handbooks, Policies and Procedures Diversity UH Center for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services AACP Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Antiracism Research Research Centers & Institutes Core Laboratory Collaborations UHCOP-DLDCCC Alliance for Drug Discovery-Development and Education Research Education Opportunities Cancer Research Education Program Office of Research News & Events Events Publications Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends Golden Cougars Alumni Reunions Volunteer Opportunities Pharmacy Alumni Association Giving Where to Give Types of Gifts Giving Societies Make A Gift HelpDesk Ticketing System UH Home College of Pharmacy Current Students Dual Programs PharmD-MBA Current Students PharmD Overview Graduate Students Overview Dual Programs PharmD-MBA PHOP PhD-Applied Economics MA Library & Learning Resources Graduation Student Handbooks, Polices and Procedures PharmD/MBA A collaboration between UH College of Pharmacy and UH's C.T. Bauer College of Business, the Pharm.D./Master of Business Administration dual-degree program is designed to meet the increasing demand for pharmacy professionals with advanced business skills and knowledge in areas ranging from operations, finance, project management, marketing and entrepreneurship. Program Benefits The core coursework and elective options provide students with the best of both worlds: a strong, broad foundation in business principles and practices and as well as flexibility in shaping their educational experience to align with their individual career goals, whether as a entrepreneurial independent business owner, consultant/managed care pharmacist or on an executive/management track in a health system or corporate/chain-based environment. The dual-degree program allows students to complete both programs in less time and at lower cost than if the programs were pursued separately. Application and Admissions Application and admission to the Pharm.D. and MBA programs are independent. Upon acceptance into both programs, students must petition the Pharm.D./MBA coordinator at both colleges for admission into the dual-degree program. The dual-degree program is open to new applicants to the Pharm.D. program as well as current students prior to the completion of the first academic year of the Pharm.D. program. Program Requirements and Curriculum Overview The curriculum requirements of each degree program (Pharm.D. and MBA) apply to the dual-degree program, except that 12 semester credit hours (SCH) of Pharm.D. courses will count as electives toward the MBA degree, and a minimum of 6 semester credit hours (or three separate courses) of MBA courses will count as electives toward the Pharm.D. degree. This sharing of courses across programs will apply only upon completion of the remaining requirements for the degree into which the credits transferring. For example, the 12 semester hours of Pharm.D. courses count toward the MBA only after the 12 hours of Pharm.D. courses have been taken and all other requirements of the MBA degree have been only after 6 semester hours of MBA course have been taken and all other requirements of the Pharm.D. degree are satisfied. Program Contacts/Coordinators Pharm.D. Program (College of Pharmacy) Nekesa Sapp nsapp@uh.edu MBA Program (Bauer College of Business) Tanieka J. Young tjyoung2@uh.edu University of Houston College of Pharmacy 4349 Martin Luther King Boulevard Houston, Texas 77204-5000 713-743-1239 Prospective Students Research News & Events Pharm.D. Performance Indicators Handbooks, Policies and Procedures Update Alumni Information About Us About the Dean Academic Departments Facilities Directory ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies