Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Awards and Fellowships Breadcrumb Home News from Brown News Search Subscribe to our weekly newsletter 50 Results based on your selections. News and Events Brown economist named one of TIME’s 100 Most Influential People of 2022 May 23, 2022 Professor of Economics Emily Oster received the distinction for her work in translating data into simple, rational guidance for parents worldwide. Read Article Open details for Brown economist named one of TIME’s 100 Most Influential People of 2022 News and Events Brown junior John Lin named one of the nation’s 58 Truman Scholars for 2022 April 15, 2022 With a commitment to reducing inequities in health care, Lin will use funding from the Truman Scholarship to seek degrees in medicine and health policy to drive change to the U.S. health care system. Read Article Open details for Brown junior John Lin named one of the nation’s 58 Truman Scholars for 2022 Social Sciences Brown social scientist wins prestigious Bradley Prize March 25, 2022 The Bradley Foundation’s $250,000 award to Glenn Loury, a professor at Brown, recognizes the scholar’s influential role in promoting viewpoint diversity in academia. Read Article Open details for Brown social scientist wins prestigious Bradley Prize News and Events Next-generation data storage start-up takes first-place Venture Prize March 24, 2022 Seven student teams vied for $50,000 in prize money at the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship’s Venture Prize pitch night, the fifth annual event but the first held in-person since 2019. Read Article Open details for Next-generation data storage start-up takes first-place Venture Prize News and Events Brown is nation’s top Fulbright-producing university, U.S. State Department data shows February 28, 2022 With 29 grants offered to students and recent alumni for the 2021-22 academic year, Brown earned the No. 1 spot as the country’s top producer of Fulbright winners, marking the fourth time the University earned the distinction. Read Article Open details for Brown is nation’s top Fulbright-producing university, U.S. State Department data shows News and Events Faculty at Brown earn prestigious awards, distinctions January 27, 2022 From late 2020 to early 2022, many of Brown’s faculty received prominent awards, fellowships and other recognition for their path-breaking scholarship and bold ideas. Read Article Open details for Faculty at Brown earn prestigious awards, distinctions Arts and Humanities Brown senior studying issues impacting migrant communities wins prestigious Rhodes Scholarship November 22, 2021 One of just 32 Rhodes Scholars from the United States, Alexandra Ali Martínez will pursue a doctoral degree in migration studies at Oxford University. Read Article Open details for Brown senior studying issues impacting migrant communities wins prestigious Rhodes Scholarship Social Sciences Brown Class of 1991 Ph.D. graduate wins Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences October 11, 2021 Guido Imbens, a Stanford University economist who received his Ph.D. from Brown in 1991, was recognized for his major role in analyzing causal relationships in the social sciences. Read Article Open details for Brown Class of 1991 Ph.D. graduate wins Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences Social Sciences Brown economist Jesse Shapiro wins MacArthur ‘genius grant’ September 28, 2021 Shapiro, a professor of economics, won $625,000 in no-strings-attached funds to advance his innovative research using data to understand and confront complex social issues. Read Article Open details for Brown economist Jesse Shapiro wins MacArthur ‘genius grant’ Social Sciences $3.4 million NIH grant to bolster population science at Brown July 28, 2021 A five-year award from the National Institutes of Health will advance research at the Population Studies and Training Center, which confronts health inequities, economic divides and other major societal problems. Read Article Open details for $3.4 million NIH grant to bolster population science at Brown Arts and Humanities Brown alumna captures Pulitzer Prize for study of McDonald’s franchises in Black America June 11, 2021 Marcia Chatelain, who graduated from Brown with a master’s and Ph.D. in American civilization, won the 2021 prize for the history category for her book “Franchise: The Golden Arches in Black America.” Read Article Open details for Brown alumna captures Pulitzer Prize for study of McDonald’s franchises in Black America Arts and Humanities Brown MFA students win prestigious Kennedy Center playwriting awards June 9, 2021 Graduate student playwrights Nkenna Akunna, Seayoung Yim and Christopher Lindsay were recognized with national awards for writing creative scripts that tackle difficult subjects such as racism, misogyny and “fatphobia.” Read Article Open details for Brown MFA students win prestigious Kennedy Center playwriting awards Arts and Humanities With U.S. National Parks grant, Brown graduate students to unearth stories from Japanese American internment camps June 7, 2021 A project by two Ph.D. candidates in American studies was awarded $220,000 from the U.S. National Park Service to shed light on the stories of lesser-known Japanese American internment camps from New Mexico to Alaska. Read Article Open details for With U.S. National Parks grant, Brown graduate students to unearth stories from Japanese American internment camps Student Life Rainbow Chen: Equitable, ethical education through international experience June 7, 2021 To advance education equity and policy, the Class of 2021 graduate and newly named Fulbright scholar will spend a year as an English teaching assistant in the Netherlands. Read Article Open details for Rainbow Chen: Equitable, ethical education through international experience Student Life Tara Srinivas: Examining the causes of a rare neurodevelopmental condition June 7, 2021 After postponing her plans for a year due to the pandemic, recent Brown graduate and Fulbright fellow Tara Srinivas will travel to Spain to research how epigenetic factors may influence neurodevelopment in Rett syndrome. Read Article Open details for Tara Srinivas: Examining the causes of a rare neurodevelopmental condition News and Events Brown students, recent graduates earn 27 Fulbright scholarships June 7, 2021 This year’s student Fulbright winners will begin teaching and research assignments in 17 countries around the world in fall of 2021. Read Article Open details for Brown students, recent graduates earn 27 Fulbright scholarships News and Events Brown faculty confers highest honor on public health, dance scholars and educators May 2, 2021 At the University’s Commencement 2021 celebration, the Brown faculty presented their peers Vincent Mor and Julie Strandberg with Rosenberger Medals of Honor, awarded just 33 times in more than a century. Read Article Open details for Brown faculty confers highest honor on public health, dance scholars and educators News and Events In socially distanced Graduate School ceremony, speakers call on peers to ‘show up’ and ‘do good work’ May 1, 2021 With an eye toward lives and careers that make an enduring and positive impact, 763 master’s and Ph.D. graduates earned Brown degrees in a Saturday afternoon Commencement ceremony on the College Green. Read Article Open details for In socially distanced Graduate School ceremony, speakers call on peers to ‘show up’ and ‘do good work’ Student Life Hossam Zaki: Innovating medical care through artificial intelligence April 13, 2021 The Brown University junior was recently awarded a Goldwater scholarship for his contributions to research that uses AI technology to improve medical care. Read Article Open details for Hossam Zaki: Innovating medical care through artificial intelligence Student Life Thomas Usherwood: Better health care through biomedical engineering April 13, 2021 The Brown undergraduate and newly named Goldwater Scholar draws from multiple math and science disciplines to help devise innovative ways to improve health care through biomedical engineering. Read Article Open details for Thomas Usherwood: Better health care through biomedical engineering News and Events Three students win prestigious Goldwater scholarships for excellence in science April 13, 2021 Joseph Cavanagh, Thomas Usherwood and Hossam Zaki each received Goldwater scholarships, which support students who plan to pursue research careers in the sciences, mathematics and engineering. Read Article Open details for Three students win prestigious Goldwater scholarships for excellence in science Student Life Joe Cavanagh: Exploring big questions through tiny matter April 13, 2021 Brown undergraduate Joe Cavanagh researches the principles governing the tiniest elements of matter — work that recently earned him a prestigious Goldwater Scholarship. Read Article Open details for Joe Cavanagh: Exploring big questions through tiny matter News and Events Research Achievement Awards honor early-career and accomplished Brown scholars March 31, 2021 In recognition of high-impact research and fundamental discoveries, the University will celebrate the work of six researchers with achievement awards presented at this spring’s 2021 Celebration of Research. Read Article Open details for Research Achievement Awards honor early-career and accomplished Brown scholars News and Events Brown student who co-founded Farmlink named National Medal of Honor Service Act winner March 25, 2021 The founders of the Farmlink Project, including Brown senior Aidan Reilly, received the award for collecting surplus food from farmers and distributing it to food banks around the country during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for Brown student who co-founded Farmlink named National Medal of Honor Service Act winner Arts and Humanities Digital scholarship initiative brings new life to research topics in the humanities March 1, 2021 With new Mellon Foundation grant, Brown will advance its foray into digital scholarship, starting with 'Furnace and Fugue.' Read Article Open details for Digital scholarship initiative brings new life to research topics in the humanities News and Events Brown ranked No. 2 nationally for 2020-21 Fulbright scholarship winners February 18, 2021 For the fifth consecutive year, the University is among the top producers of Fulbright winners, with 38 grants awarded to Brown students and recent alumni. Read Article Open details for Brown ranked No. 2 nationally for 2020-21 Fulbright scholarship winners News and Events Four students, recent alumni awarded prestigious Marshall and Schwarzman scholarships December 7, 2020 Class of 2020 graduate Frishta Qaderi will study at Oxford as a recipient of the Marshall scholarship, while three others will pursue graduate degrees at Tsinghua University in Beijing as Schwarzman Scholars. Read Article Open details for Four students, recent alumni awarded prestigious Marshall and Schwarzman scholarships News and Events Class of 2020 Brown graduate awarded prestigious Rhodes Scholarship November 22, 2020 Mneera Abdullah Saud, a native of Saudi Arabia and Bahrain who earned a bachelor's degree in computer science at Brown, will pursue graduate studies at Oxford through the world’s oldest international scholarship program. Read Article Open details for Class of 2020 Brown graduate awarded prestigious Rhodes Scholarship Health and Medicine Early-career biostatistics scholar from Brown wins prestigious Packard fellowship October 15, 2020 Brown School of Public Health faculty member Lorin Crawford will receive $875,000 over five years to pursue research in statistics, genomics and applied mathematics. Read Article Open details for Early-career biostatistics scholar from Brown wins prestigious Packard fellowship News and Events Brown researcher, global health physician nominated for Nobel Peace Prize October 1, 2020 Dr. Ruhul Abid and his nonprofit organization, Health and Education for All, are among the nominees for this year’s prize for their work to deliver medical care to garment factory workers and refugees in Bangladesh. Read Article Open details for Brown researcher, global health physician nominated for Nobel Peace Prize News and Events Brown named among world’s top universities in national, international rankings September 14, 2020 The University was ranked No. 14 in U.S. News and World Report and earned high marks in a range of higher education rankings focused on academic experience, undergraduate research, return on investment and more. Read Article Open details for Brown named among world’s top universities in national, international rankings News and Events Brown professor wins prestigious Fulbright award September 2, 2020 Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and Assistant Provost for Sustainability Stephen Porder will study and teach in Paris next year as a De Tocqueville Distinguished Chair. Read Article Open details for Brown professor wins prestigious Fulbright award News and Events Brown earns national recognition for commitment to diversity, inclusion September 1, 2020 The Higher Education Excellence in Diversity award recognizes the University’s campus-wide commitment to advancing diversity and inclusion across all facets of its community. Read Article Open details for Brown earns national recognition for commitment to diversity, inclusion News and Events Brown faculty members earn prominent awards, distinctions July 14, 2020 In recent months, prestigious national and international organizations have recognized Brown faculty for their research, scholarship and leadership. Read Article Open details for Brown faculty members earn prominent awards, distinctions News and Events Graduate students, recent Brown alumni earn 36 Fulbright scholarships July 1, 2020 With COVID-19 complicating international travel, this year’s student Fulbright winners will begin their teaching and research assignments across the globe at the start of 2021. Read Article Open details for Graduate students, recent Brown alumni earn 36 Fulbright scholarships Science and Technology Brown physicist earns prestigious Early Career Grant from U.S. Department of Energy June 23, 2020 The five-year, $750,000 award will help Kemp Plumb study exotic states of matter that emerge in certain magnetic materials. Read Article Open details for Brown physicist earns prestigious Early Career Grant from U.S. Department of Energy Health and Medicine For underrepresented scholars, fellowship will fund Brown MPH to train new generation of leaders June 15, 2020 A new Health Equity Scholars fellowship program from Brown’s School of Public Health and Tougaloo College is aimed at expanding diversity among public health leaders and addressing racism as a public health problem. Read Article Open details for For underrepresented scholars, fellowship will fund Brown MPH to train new generation of leaders Environment Brown scholar will use Carnegie fellowship to explore nature, politics in the Yukon May 12, 2020 The fellowship will allow Bathsheba Demuth, an environmental historian, to use the Yukon watershed as a case study for how different societies manage, protect and plunder their natural resources. Read Article Open details for Brown scholar will use Carnegie fellowship to explore nature, politics in the Yukon News and Events Brown junior wins prestigious Udall Scholarship for environmental science May 8, 2020 As a Udall Scholar, Melissa Lopez will examine ways to predict — and prevent — the effects of climate change upon city environments. Read Article Open details for Brown junior wins prestigious Udall Scholarship for environmental science Arts and Humanities Brown alumnus captures Pulitzer Prize for Susan Sontag biography May 5, 2020 Benjamin Moser, a Class of 1998 graduate, won a 2020 Pulitzer Prize for the authorized biography “Sontag: Her Life and Work" — and a team led in part by Brown alumnus Ira Glass captured the first ever prize for audio reporting. Read Article Open details for Brown alumnus captures Pulitzer Prize for Susan Sontag biography News and Events Three Brown professors elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences April 24, 2020 With their election to the prestigious honor society, Carl Kaestle, Diane Lipscombe and Susanna Loeb join the nation’s leading scholars in science, public affairs, business, arts and humanities. Read Article Open details for Three Brown professors elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences News and Events Three professors win Guggenheim fellowships to advance research interests April 17, 2020 The John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation has awarded fellowships to Brown faculty members Josh Pacewicz, Kavita Ramanan and Daniel Jordan Smith. Read Article Open details for Three professors win Guggenheim fellowships to advance research interests News and Events Brown junior wins prestigious Truman Scholarship for public service April 15, 2020 As a Truman Scholar, Marysol Fernandez-Harvey plans to pursue a law degree to help her impact the political landscape in her native Puerto Rico. Read Article Open details for Brown junior wins prestigious Truman Scholarship for public service News and Events Brown undergraduates, recent alum win prestigious scholarships April 15, 2020 Four current undergraduates and one recent alumnus have been awarded national scholarships, which collectively recognize excellence in academic fields including the arts, humanities, social sciences and STEM. Read Article Open details for Brown undergraduates, recent alum win prestigious scholarships News and Events National Science Foundation awards support promising work by early-career faculty April 2, 2020 The awards for early-career faculty will support research in nanotechnology, education research, computer graphics modeling and anti-fungal therapies. Read Article Open details for National Science Foundation awards support promising work by early-career faculty Arts and Humanities Brown University architectural historian awarded esteemed New Directions Fellowship April 1, 2020 A $245,000 award from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation will allow Itohan Osayimwese, an architectural and urban historian at Brown, to pursue additional studies in historical archaeology. Read Article Open details for Brown University architectural historian awarded esteemed New Directions Fellowship Science and Technology Sloan Foundation awards early-career fellowships to two Brown scientists February 27, 2020 Two assistant professors at Brown, in chemistry and ecology and evolutionary biology, are among the 126 early-career scholars named as Alfred P. Sloan Foundation fellows for 2020. Read Article Open details for Sloan Foundation awards early-career fellowships to two Brown scientists Arts and Humanities Shahzad Bashir to deliver Presidential Faculty Award Lecture at Brown February 17, 2020 Bashir, director of the Center for Middle East Studies at Brown, will discuss the cultural pervasiveness of poetry in Iran, Central Asia and South Asia. Read Article Open details for Shahzad Bashir to deliver Presidential Faculty Award Lecture at Brown News and Events Brown ranked nation’s No. 2 producer of Fulbright winners for 2019-20 February 10, 2020 With 38 Fulbright grants awarded to students and recent alumni, the University is among the top Fulbright institutions for the fourth consecutive year. Read Article Open details for Brown ranked nation’s No. 2 producer of Fulbright winners for 2019-20 News and Events Brown earns national recognition for community engagement from Carnegie Foundation January 31, 2020 On Friday, Jan. 31, the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching named Brown a recipient of the Carnegie Community Engagement Classification, an elective designation recognizing institution-wide commitment to community engagement. Read Article Open details for Brown earns national recognition for community engagement from Carnegie Foundation Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Awards and Fellowships Open details for Awards and Fellowships Bookmark this Page