Skip to main content Main navigation Mobile Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Main navigation Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Political Buttons View the Collection In This Section Faculty & Research Library & Knowledge Services Collections Faculty Publications and Papers Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging Behind The Book Political Buttons Web Archive In This Section You are here Home Faculty & Research Library & Knowledge Services Collections Political Buttons The Political Buttons at HKS Collection includes over 1,500 political buttons from the 20th and 21st centuries, representing U.S. political campaigns at every level, ballot initiatives, social issues and movements, and political demonstrations. Digital Exhibits Curated selections from our Political Buttons at HKS Collection are available as interactive digital exhibits. These exhibits are projects of the HKS Library with support from the Dean’s Office, Academic Deans’ Office, and the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging. Redefining the Table: Diversifying US Elections Over the past decade a record number of individuals from underrepresented groups have launched U.S. political campaigns. This exhibit features political buttons from 32 such candidates – women, people of color, Native people, & members of the LGBTQ community – who have sought office since 2012. Visit the Exhibit Decades of Resistance: Political Movement Pins The U.S. has rich history of political activism, popular support for which has long been displayed through buttons. From the Vietnam War to nuclear power, South African apartheid to LGBTQ rights, & the Iraq War to #MeToo, the buttons in this exhibit highlight issues from the 1960s to today. Visit the Exhibit The collection was established in 2012, when local philanthropist Steven M. Rothstein donated his family’s personal collection of 2,000 political buttons. Mr. Rothstein, an accomplished nonprofit administrator and leader, led Citizen Schools and the Perkins School for the Blind before becoming the Executive Director of the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation. In 2018, we began expanding Mr. Rothstein’s collection during each election cycle. We contact the campaign teams of each candidate, offering them the chance to memorialize their efforts in our library. Our growing collection of contemporary candidate buttons include those of Democratic, Republican, and Independent politicians running for all forms of political office. We hope the digitized images and original source material of these buttons - accessible through HOLLIS Images - will be used for educational purposes in the fields of politics, government, U.S. and world history, sociology and beyond. We also hope researchers will take advantage of them for scholarship around 20th-century politics, electioneering, political Americana, and social, political, and cultural issues and movements of the 20th century. Questions regarding this collection should be directed to Corinne Wolfson, Digital Collections Librarian. We also welcome individual button donations. Political Campaigns From the early 1900s to the 2020 elections. View in HOLLIS Women's Rights For gender equality in politics. View in HOLLIS Social Movements A window into causes throughout U.S. history. View in HOLLIS Read more about the collection in the Harvard Gazette "The buttons are from local elections, school committees and town councils, to state and national elections promoting the likes of Elizabeth Holtzman, a Radcliffe graduate and Congresswoman from New York, and Shirley Chisholm, the first African-American candidate to run for the presidency of the United States and the first woman to seek the democratic presidential nomination." -Stephanie Mitchell 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1100 Ask What You Can Do Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Admissions Events Give Now Alumni Jobs Contact Us Privacy Web Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/harvardkennedyschool/ https://twitter.com/kennedy_school https://www.linkedin.com/school/harvard-kennedy-school-of-government/ https://www.youtube.com/user/HarvardKennedySchool http://instagram.com/harvardkennedyschool/