Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information UW Alumni Tours Home Alumni Travel Tour Operators Tour Operators Close Menu Home Travel COVID-19 Updates Traveler Testimonials Upcoming Tours Tour Operators Traveling with us FAQs & Resources Travel insurance Meet the team & Contact us UW Alumni Tours works with the most professional and highly-experienced tour operators, selected based on their destination expertise, reputation and top quality programming. By working with a variety of operators, we can offer a broad spectrum of tours for different travel tastes and expectations. Most importantly, all operators are dedicated to educational travel in the pursuit of life-long learning. Feel free to reach out to a tour operator directly for questions about a trip or your reservation – just be sure to let them know you’re with the UW. They can help with questions ranging from the itinerary and airline arrangements, to visa questions and destination-specific travel tips. AHI Travel 877-223-9274 UW alumni have been traveling with AHI Travel since the 1970s. Offering deluxe international educational tours, AHI is best known for its European river cruises, Crystal Cruise Line itineraries, other small-ship cruises, and its Alumni Campus Abroad series. These specific tours allow for an intimate experience in small towns and remote destinations complete with lectures and local exchanges. In addition, we are excited that on a few select tours each year, AHI is able to offer spots that do not require the single supplement. Go Next and Oceania Cruise Line 1-888-918-8954 In 2009, UW Alumni Tours started to sponsor tours with Go Next to offer UW alumni and friends luxury cruising with Oceania Cruises, known for their deluxe ships, exceptional culinary experiences and exciting itineraries. Through Go Next’s partnership with Oceania Cruises and other lines, it secures group space for various university alumni associations and acts as the universities’ cruise agency, taking care of reservations for all alumni clients from start to finish, and providing excellent customer service. By matching Oceania’s lowest prices available, Go Next ensures that UW travelers receive the best value. Go Next’s additional partnerships allows UW Alumni Tours to sponsor cruises on the Mississippi River, around Cuba and through the Great Lakes as well. Odysseys Unlimited 1-888-370-6765 Since 1999, hundreds of UW alumni and friends have enjoyed world-wide educational travel with this small, privately-owned company. Founded in 1998, Odysseys Unlimited is a six-time honoree of Travel + Leisure‘s World’s Best Tour Operators award. A favorite of UW alumni, Odysseys has emerged as a leader in affordable, high-quality small group travel. With a maximum of 24 participants per trip, its tour groups stay in smaller, unique hotels, and offer intimate cultural experiences not available to larger groups. Odysseys further distinguishes itself by employing highly-educated, local tour directors who explain the history and culture of the destination throughout the tour. Odysseys Unlimited Statement on Equality and Social Justice Here is a video from Odysseys’ president, Bruce Epstein, about Odysseys Unlimited’s commitment to helping you travel again when the world is ready and the time is right. Check out the 2022 UW & Odysseys Unlimited Catalog. Orbridge 866-639-0079 Orbridge, based on Bainbridge Island, works with more than 100 alumni associations to provide the ultimate educational travel experience. Its trips include the perfect combination of delightful high-end properties, included features and free time, expert guides, lecturers and personalized service from start to finish. Beginning in 2011, UW Alumni Tours has offered a variety of tours through Orbridge such as exploring America’s National Parks and Africa safaris to culinary tours in Europe. Home Travel COVID-19 Updates Traveler Testimonials Upcoming Tours Tour Operators Traveling with us FAQs & Resources Travel insurance Meet the team & Contact us Friends & Family Welcome! You don’t have to be a UW graduate to travel with UW Alumni Tours! UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA