Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Herff College of Engineering About Future Students Students Programs Research Alumni News | Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Current Students Academic Advising Get Involved Scholarships Tutoring Services Honors Program Engineering Career Services Fundamentals of Engineering Exam Take Action Visit Herff Apply to UofM Orientation 2022 Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Herff College of Engineering Current Students You are part of the Herff College family! The Herff College of Engineering attracts students with curious minds. Interesting people. Creative brains. Renaissance thinkers. Innovators who solve problems. Visionaries who positively impact the world around them. We are glad you're here! Take a moment to familiarize yourself with the options on the left and use these links to help make Herff your home away from home! Free MATLAB Resources for UofM Students As part of The University of Memphis MATLAB site license, all faculty, staff, and students have access to hands-on learning through Online Training Courses - at no extra cost. The University of Memphis MATLAB Portal LINK to update your license Our Online Training Courses allows new and existing users to learn to use MATLAB effectively. Courses include interactive MATLAB exercises for fast and relevant learning. Quizzes test your knowledge and provide immediate feedback. These online courses are intended for beginning users as well as those looking for more in-depth training. Available courses: MATLAB Onramp MATLAB Fundamentals MATLAB for Financial Applications MATLAB Programming Techniques MATLAB for Data Processing and Visualization Solving Ordinary Differential Equations with MATLAB Introduction to Linear Algebra with MATLAB Introduction to Statistical Methods with MATLAB Solving Nonlinear Equations with MATLAB MATLAB installation is not required. Just log in with your MathWorks account to begin. Undergraduate and Graduate Student Computer Requirements Every year, software tools become more entwined with practice of the engineering profession. In addition to preparing our students for professional practice by teaching them how to use these tools, our undergraduate curricula employ software tools to efficiently and effectively deliver subject matter expertise, to enhance student-teacher interaction, to assess student learning, and to increase student achievement. Therefore, the faculty of the Herff College of Engineering requires that each student enrolled in the college's programs possess computing resources that meet or exceed certain minimum specifications. Any student enrolled in engineering courses is expected to be able to bring to class a computer that supports use of software in a classroom environment. Specific requirements may vary by program. Contact the Department of your Major if you have specific questions. Recommended System: Operating System: Windows 10 Processor: Intel Core i7 RAM: 8GB GPU: NVidia Graphics Card with 1GB memory Hard Drive: Solid State Drive (SSD) 256GB Network: IEEE 802.11g wireless capability Display: 15 inch with resolution of 1920x1080 (1080p) Minimum System: Operating System: Windows 10 Processor: Any Intel or AMD x86-64 processor (64-bit) RAM: 4GB GPU: None Specified Hard Drive: 256GB Hard Drive Network: IEEE 802.11g wireless capability Display: 14 inch Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/18/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.