COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Learning and Instructional Design, Master's Master'sLearning and Instructional Design All Programs College of Applied Studies School of Education The Master of Education (MEd) in learning and instructional design from Wichita State offers career-advancing knowledge and skills for K-12 educators and corporate trainers in virtually any organization. You'll master the principles behind instructional content and delivery, program design and instructional leadership—preparing you for a promotion or new career in public or private sectors. The program features: A flexible online format Instruction in best practices in education and corporate training Elective courses based on your career goals Learn how Learning and Instructional Design is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program In addition to Graduate School admission requirements, you must: Graduate from the WSU teacher education program with a minimum GPA of 2.75 in the last 60 credit hours; OR Graduate from an NCATE-accredited program with a minimum 3.0 GPA in the last 60 credit hours; OR Have a 2.75 minimum GPA in last 60 hours and GRE scores of at least 152 in Verbal and 153 in Quantitative; OR Provide alternative evidence that documents academic aptitude; OR Provide evidence of involvement in teaching, training and/or program design, or recommendation by the graduate program committee. Admission requirements Curriculum The MEd in learning and instructional design is a 30-credit-hour, completely online program. Core curriculum consists of 15 credit hours of foundational coursework, 3 credit hours of thesis or non-thesis work and 12 credit hours of electives. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree from Wichita State's College of Applied Studies will give you the knowledge, skills and confidence to make a positive impact in the classroom—and on your career. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Educational Leadership (Master's) Innovation Design (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©