Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites News Archive Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Related Links: Student Research Forum Summer Research Training Program Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift News Archive Kindergarteners benefit from bike program initiated by KU Medical Center faculty Professors from schools of Health Professions and Medicine connect a local elementary school with a bicycling nonprofit in a push for lifelong activity. May 18, 2022 | Anne Christiansen-Bullers Matthew Sharpe, M.D., left, and Dave Burnett, Ph.D., unveil the All Kids Bike cycles they secured and then put together with the help of School of Health Professions students. The bikes will now be a part of the physical education curriculum for kindergarteners and first graders at Frank Rushton Elementary School in Kansas City, Kansas. Kindergarteners at Frank Rushton Elementary School gasped and shrieked with excitement when they saw a classroom set of bicycles just their size during physical education class. The bikes, unveiled in the fall of 2021, were part of an outreach program initiated by Dave Burnett, Ph.D., associate professor and chair of the Department of Respiratory Care and Diagnostic Science in the University of Kansas School of Health Professions. Burnett, an avid cyclist himself, saw a story about the All Kids Bike program in one of his mountain-biking magazines. All Kids Bike is a nonprofit organization dedicated to helping all children, regardless of their socioeconomic status, learn to ride a bike. By supplying the bicycles and curriculum via donations and grants, All Kids Bike helps make bicycling part of the physical education curriculum. Planting seeds of healthy living Burnett, who is also associate dean of faculty practice and community partnership for the School of Health Professions, did some investigating. He then persuaded his friend and colleague Matthew Sharpe to help bring All Kids Bike to Rushton, an elementary school just a half-mile southwest of the KU Medical Center campus in Kansas City, Kansas. Sharpe, M.D., associate professor in the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine in KU School of Medicine, said he appreciated bringing bicycles to a school that otherwise might not have been able to afford them. “It’s a great way to introduce a lot of these kids at a very young age to bicycling as a form of activity,” Sharpe said. “It’s never too young to plant that seed of development for healthy living and a healthy lifestyle.” Research in action Burnett’s research focus is respiritory disorders including asthma, so he knows that children with asthma tend to decrease their physical activity, despite research showing that physical activity can improve asthma if symptoms are managed properly. He considered All Kids Bike a practical application of that research, benefitting those with asthma as well as those without. “We thought, ‘This is a nice fit – here’s an opportunity for kids to remain physically active and learn a new skill by riding a bike,’ and then in adolescence, they can continue an active lifestyle,” Burnett said. When the 25 bikes were delivered, Burnett, Sharpe and a handful of students from the School of Health Professions assembled and then delivered them. Starting in kindergarten Beverlee Brokeshoulder, physical education teacher at Rushton Elementary, said she’d never heard of All Kids Bike until Burnett approached her with the idea of bringing bicycles to her class. “Introducing the students to bicycles in kindergarten is such a great idea. They’re so eager, and they aren’t afraid about falling or embarrassing themselves,” Brokeshoulder said. In another bike program, where the bikes were on loan to fifth graders, the physical education teacher said results were less energetic. “I was amazed at how many kids had never been on a bicycle before – in fifth grade. And then, for the kids who have had no introduction to it, they start feeling insecure and self-conscious. But in kindergarten, it’s a safe space.” Brokeshoulder agreed with Burnett that bicycling can be a lifelong activity. “My dad is 86 years old, and he was riding those big three-wheeled bicycles. So, it’s definitely an activity you can do for a lifetime.” Community outreach In addition to the bicycles, which Brokeshoulder stores in her own office, she said she appreciated the connection to her neighbor, the University of Kansas Medical Center. “We really appreciate the support of the medical center and its people. It’s fantastic, especially since the university is right here close. Community involvement really helps our kids,” she said. With a successful rollout at Rushton, Burnett and Sharpe are considering ways to expand the program. “I think our future goals are to continue to work with Rushton and other schools near the medical center and in Wyandotte County,” Sharpe said. “The bike program creates the connection, and our hope is to piggyback on other things, such as healthy living and healthy nutrition.” Videos used with permission of Kansas City Kansas Public Schools See Related Stories in Outreach, School of Health Professions Newsroom Media Inquiries 913-617-8698 khawes@kumc.edu News and Media Relations Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.