Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Healthcare and Nursing Home Career Clusters Healthcare and Nursing Career Clusters Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Explore Healthcare and Nursing Careers in healthcare and nursing offer opportunities to use science, research, compassion, and critical thinking to provide care, improve the health of others, and solve global health challenges. We invite you to explore this cluster to determine if it is a good fit for you and leverage our resources to launch your job, internship, or graduate school search. Meet Your Career Coach Our specialized Healthcare and Nursing career coach will help you launch a job, internship, or graduate school search in your field of interest. MAKE AN APPOINTMENT Jonathan Rosenthal Key Resources Handshake Use your Handshake account to search for jobs/internships, connect with employers, find events, and more. Eagle Exchange Use your Eagle Exchange account to connect with BC alumni. Join the Healthcare and Nursing group to network with members and participate in group discussions. Jobs + Internships Browse our jobs and internships pages to prepare to apply to HN positions. Use our HN resume and cover letter examples to help you get started. HN Newsletters Update your career interests in Handshake to receive regular updates from our coaches with exclusive resources, reminders, event invites, job/internship postings, and more. Upcoming Events Healthcare and Nursing Career Center Explore Opportunities in Healthcare and Nursing Allied Health Clinical Professions Healthcare Administration Mental Health Nursing Public Health Wellness (Nutrition/Fitness) Allied Health Allied health professionals are important to the healthcare delivery system. While there is not one strict definition of allied healthcare, generally speaking, allied health refers to those areas within healthcare that are distinct from medicine and nursing. The Association of Schools Advancing Health Professions has more information here about allied health professions. Types of Positions Genetic Counselor Occupational Therapist Physical Therapist Physiotherapist Chiropractor Speech Language Pathologist Where BC Graduates Have Gone Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital Paggi Physical Therapy Sports Rehabilitiation Walden Behavioral Care Hiring Timelines for Healthcare Professions 4% received job offers before senior year 8% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 48% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 39% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources Allied Health Careers Association of Schools of Advancing Health Professions American Physical Therapy Association Careers American Speech-Language-Hearing Association Care National Association of Black Physical Therapists American Physical Therapy Association Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Resources American Occupational Therapy Association Multicultural Interests National Society of Genetic Counselors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Resources Campus Resources Pre-Health Program Professional Associations and Organizations American Occupational Therapy Association National Society of Genetic Counselors American Physical Therapy Association American Chiropractic Association American Speech-Language-Hearing Association American Black Chiropractic Association National Black Association for Speech-Language and Hearing Do I need to go to graduate school? While there are some entry-level roles to support allied health providers that do not require graduate education, to work as an allied health professional, advanced study and training is required. You should research the requirements for the specific field you plan to enter. For example, physical therapists must earn a doctor of physical therapy (DPT) and pass a licensing exam while occupational therapists need to earn a masters degree and license. Graduate School Graduate Program Resources: Occupational Therapy Masters Programs Physical Therapy Programs Chiropractic Programs Speech Pathology Programs Genetic Counselor Programs Clinical Professions Clinicians are healthcare professionals qualified in the clinical practice of medicine. Clinicians work together to provide care and support the overall health of their patients in healthcare settings. Clinical researchers design, implement, and monitor studies designated for clinical development. The most common clinical paths beyond nursing for BC students include Physician, Dentist, Veterinarian, Physician Assistant, and Clinical Researcher. This section covers the various clinical professions within medicine that are beyond nursing (see the Nursing tab). Types of Positions Physician Dentist Veterinarian Physician Assistant Clinical Researcher To work as a clinical professional, you will need to attend graduate school. To explore these clinical medical fields and support applications for graduate school admission, students may pursue roles while in school or during gap years in clinical research, medical scribing, medical support (EMT, CNA, PCA), or volunteer opportunities. Where BC Graduates Have Gone Employment: Boston Children’s Hospital Brigham and Women’s Hospital Dana Farber Cancer Institute McLean Hospital Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Massachusetts General Hospital New York Presbyterian Hospital Scribe America Graduate School: New York Medical College Tufts University University of Massachusetts Columbia University Hiring Timelines for Healthcare Professions 4% received job offers before senior year 8% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 48% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 39% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources Explorehealthcareers.org Association of American Medical Colleges (Subscribe to AAMC Pre-Med Navigator Newsletter) American Dental Education Association (Subscribe to GoDental Newsletter) Association of American Veterinary Medical College (Subscribe to VSES Newsletter) AAMC Post-Bacc Pre-Med Database PA Shadow Online Medical Scribe Information ACRP Career Center Project I.M.P.A.C.T. Increase Minority Participation and Awareness of Clinical Trials Mentoring in Medicine Greater Influence AAMC Resources on Diversity & Inclusion Campus Resources BC Pre-Health Program BC Student Organizations Mendel Society GlobeMed Global Medical Brigades Project Sunshine Pre-Dental Society Timmy Global Health Eagles EMS MEDLIFE Professional Associations and Organizations American Medical Association (AMA) American Medical Women’s Association (AMWA) American Dental Association (ADA) American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) American Academy of Physician Assistants (AAPA) Association of Clinical Research Professionals (ACRP) National Medical Association (NMA) Association of Black Women Physicians The Association of American Indian Physicians (AAIP) National Council of Asian Pacific Islander Physicians (NCAPIP) National Hispanic Medical Association (NHMA) National Association of Black Veterinarians National Dental Association Hispanic Dental Association American Academy of Physician Assistants (AAPA) Caucuses Gay & Lesbian Medical Association Do I need to go to graduate school? While there are entry-level positions in clinical research that do not require a graduate degree, graduate study is required to work in clinical fields. Physicians require an M.D. or D.O. degree. Dentists require a D.D.S. or D.M.D. degree. Vetrinarians require a D.V.M. degree. Physician Assistants require a master's degree. Clinical Researchers often pursue a master's or doctoral degree. Graduate School Graduate Program Resources: Medical Schools Osteopathic Schools Dental Schools Vetrinary Schools Physician's Assistant Master's Programs 8% Average percentage of BC graduates that pursue graduate degrees in medicine directly after graduation Healthcare Administration Healthcare administration incorporates a variety of business functions within a healthcare organization or system. The ultimate goal of healthcare administrators is to ensure effective and efficient healthcare delivery. While the work of healthcare administrators (from health policy to human resources) occurs behind the scenes, it is critical to the quality and accessibility of frontline healthcare. Types of Positions Healthcare Insurance Representative Healthcare Consultant Healthcare Data Analyst Department Manager Medical Billing Specialist Healthcare Software Implementation Specialist Where BC Graduates Have Gone Epic Systems Definitive Healthcare Cigna Athenahealth Optum Foundation Medicine Hiring Timelines for Healthcare Professions 4% received job offers before senior year 8% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 48% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 39% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources LiquidCompas HealthcareAdministrationEDU American College of Healthcare Executives Diversity Resources The Institute-ACHE Summer Enrichment Program Strategic Alliance Campus Resources Woods College Master of Healthcare Administration (MHA) Professional Associations and Organizations Healthcare Financial Management Association (HFMA) American College of Healthcare Executives National Association of Health Services Executives (NAHSE) Do I need to go to graduate school? A graduate degree is not required for most entry-level positions in healthcare administration. A master's degree in business or healthcare administration can increase your employability and ability to work in management positions. Graduate School Mental Health Mental health providers help to address situational or chronic mental health disorders, such as depression, anxiety, or addiction. Many mental health providers work with clients in individual or group therapy, but the environment may vary from private practice to an educational or government organization. This resource on types of mental health professionals explains the differences between psychologists, psychiatrists, social workers, and therapists/counselors. Types of Positions Mental Health Counselor Clinical Psychologist Clinical Social Worker Therapist Psychotherapist Substance Abuse Therapist Mental Health Research Where BC Graduates Have Gone MA Department of Mental Health New York Presbyterian Brooklyn Methodist Column Health St. Elizabeth's Medical Center North Suffolk Mental Health Association Yale New Haven Health Hiring Timelines for Healthcare Professions 4% received job offers before senior year 8% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 48% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 39% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources National Institute of Mental Health Psychology Today Considering a Career in Mental Health Counseling SocialWork.org Mental Health America Black And African American Communities And Mental Health National Alliance on Mental Illness Identity and Cultural Dimensions National Association of Social Workers LGBT Resources Campus Resources School of Social Work Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology (CDEP) University Counseling Services Health Coaches Professional Associations National Association of Social Workers American Mental Health Counselors Association Association for Addiction Professionals Mental Health Research Association American Psychological Association Asian American Psychological Association Association of Black Psychologists National Latina/o Psychological Association Society of Indian Psychologists National Association of Black Social Workers Do I need to go to graduate school? While there are some entry-level roles to support mental health providers that do not require graduate education, to work as a mental health provider, a graduate degree is required. Before pursuing a degree, it is important to learn about what each degree will allow you to do career-wise to determine which type of program will help you achieve your goals (e.g. some degrees will qualify you for a specific type of licensure while others will not). The National Alliance on Mental Illness website shows the degree requirements by type of mental health professional. Graduate School Nursing Nursing is the largest healthcare field. It combines science and technology with the desire to help people. The two most popular career options in nursing include becoming a Registered Nurse (RN) or Nurse Practitioner (NP). Both RNs and NPs work closely with patients to monitor their health and provide care. NPs hold graduate degrees and specialize in areas such as family, adult, gerontology, psychiatry, women's health, anesthesia, and more. While a majority of nurses work in hospitals, opportunities are available in a variety of settings including private healthcare, nonprofits, education, the military, and more. Graduates of the Connell School of Nursing (CSON) undergraduate program will be prepared to fill RN positions and graduates of the Connell School of Nursing will be prepared to fill NP positions as well as research and education positions. Non-CSON students who are interested in a career in nursing will take a different path to nursing, as additional education is required to enter nursing as a RN or NP. Types of Positions Registered Nurse New Graduate Residency Program Nurse Externship Program Nurse Practitioner Nurse Anesthetist Nurse Educator Certified Nurse Assistant Where BC Graduates Have Gone Brigham and Women's Hospital Boston Children's Hospital Massachusetts General Hospital New York Presbyterian Hospital UCLA Ronald Reagan Medical Center Yale New Haven Hospital Bellevue Hospital Medstar Georgetown Hospital McLean Hospital Hiring Timelines for Healthcare Professions 4% received job offers before senior year 8% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 48% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 39% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources LiquidCompass What Can I Do with a Nusing Major? American Association of Colleges of Nursing Best Hospital Finder from U.S. News and World Report Nurse Residency Programs MAHospitalCareers.com Nurse.com Minority Nurse Magazine American Mobile Healthcare Campus Resources Connell School of Nursing staff Connell School of Nursing graduate programs Undergraduate Research Fellows (UGRF) Program KILN Boston College Sigma Theta Tau International Alpha Chi Chapter Connell School of Nursing Student Leadership Opportunities Professional Associations Sigma Theta Tau (International Honor Society of Nursing) National Student Nurses' Association Massachusetts Student Nurses’ Association American Nurses Association American Nurses Association Massachusetts American Academy of Nursing American Academy of Nurse Practitioners Massachusetts Coalition of Nurse Practitioners National Black Nurses Association New England Regional Black Nurses Association National Association of Hispanic Nurses Do I need to go to graduate school? A graduate degree in nursing is not required to continue as a Registered Nurse (RN). However, graduate education is required to become a Nurse Practitioner (NP) or to become a nurse leader or educator. For non-nursing students interested in a career in nursing, additional education is required. You may consider an advanced baccalaureate or direct entry program depending on your goals. Graduate School Public Health According to the CDC Foundation, “Public health is the science of protecting and improving the health of people and their communities. This work is achieved by promoting healthy lifestyles, researching disease and injury prevention, and detecting, preventing and responding to infectious diseases.” Whereas clinicians typically take care of individuals, those working in public health think about and develop interventions to address the health needs of communities. This video from the American Public Health Association (APHA) explains the field of public health further. Public health workers can work in public, private, non-profit, or educational settings. Types of Positions Epidemiologist Community Outreach Specialist Health Educator Program Coordinator Researcher Where BC Graduates Have Gone Boston Healthcare for the Homeless Program Mothers’ Milk Bank Northeast Lowell Community Health Center Eliot Community Health Bay Cove Human Services Boston Public Health Commission Hiring Timelines for Healthcare Professions 4% received job offers before senior year 8% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 48% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 39% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources BC Global Public Health List of Professional Opportunities Association of Schools and Programs of Public Health (ASPPH) Best Public Health Graduate Programs Global Health Council Public Health Career Guide Public Health Online APHA | Career Learning Center CDC Minority Health, Health Equity Resources APHA Health Equity Resources National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities Society for the Analysis of African American Public Health Issues Black Women’s Health Imperative Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion CDC LGBT Health CDC Disability and Health Promotion Seven Directions: A Center for Indigenous Public Health Campus Resources Global Public Health and the Common Good/Public Health Minor List of public health student organizations at BC Professional Associations and Organizations American Public Health Association (APHA) Do I need to go to graduate school? There are some entry-level positions in public health that do not require a graduate degree, but to advance in the field, a graduate degree is required. Graduate School Wellness (Nutrition/Fitness) Careers in nutrition and fitness include those in which one is helping others to achieve healthy lives and lifestyles. Professionals who work in these fields need to have strong knowledge of health factors, nutritional facts, and the human body. Some of the key skills required to enter these fields include: communication, critical thinking and problem solving skills, decision-making, and interpersonal skills. Types of Positions Health Coach Nutritionist Registered Dietitian Athletic Trainer Fitness Manager/Director/General Manager Where BC Graduates Have Gone Boston College Athletics Lynx Fitness Club Institute for Integrative Nutrition Noom Inc Sophia Neff Health and Fitness LLC Hiring Timelines for Healthcare Professions 4% received job offers before senior year 8% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 48% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 39% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources State Requirements For Nutrition And Dietitian Fields American Society for Nutrition Job Board FitnessJobs.com NutritionJobs.com Vault Guide on Dieticians and Nutritionists Vault Guide on Fitness and Training Career Options in Nutrition and Wellness Diversify Dietetics Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Diversity and Inclusion Resources Fitness Has A Diversity Problem. Can Apps Democratize The Sector? Fly Girl Collective Doubling Down on Diversity: The Journey to a More Diverse Field Campus Resources Office of Health Promotion Health Coaching BC Margot Connell Recreation Center Professional Associations Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics American Society for Nutrition International Fitness Professionals Association (IFPA) American Fitness Professionals Association (AFPA) Academy of Applied Personal Training Education (AAPTE) Physical Activity Council National Organization of Blacks in Dietetics and Nutrition (NOBIDAN) Do I need to go to graduate school? For Registered Dieticians and Nutritionists, education and licensure requirements vary by state. Fitness professionals typically need to seek out certification that aligns with their specific area(s) of focus within fitness. In addition, they may decide to pursue a masters degree in exercise science or kinesiology. Graduate School Now Playing How to Create a Scientific Resume Representatives from the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard share their tips on how to create a scientific resume. Resumes How to Approach Medical School Interviews A panel discussion and Q&A on how to approach medical school interviews, with a special focus on both ethics-related questions and the virtual interview format. Resumes Resumes for Nurses Workshop Representatives from Boston Children's Hospital share their tips on what a strong nursing resume should look like, what they are seeking when they review resumes for nursing positions, and how to make your resume stand out. Resumes From the Career Center Blog 6 Employers Give You Their Career Fair Advice Registration for the Boston College Career Fair opens to all students on February 7th. As you think about how to January 24, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam How to Land a Summer Internship in Healthcare & Nursing As our Summer Experience Dashboard shows us, the vast majority of students land their summer experiences — whether internships, research, October 27, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Meet the Healthcare and Nursing Student Advisory Board Last spring, the Career Center recruited students to serve as advisors for our career clusters during the 2021-2022 academic year. September 20, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Managing Family Career Expectations Read this if…. Your family expects you to have a high-earning or high-profile career. You feel pressured to be successful April 23, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam A Career in Health and a Healthy Career “Do you want to work with people on their health or sick people in the hospital?”, my college advisor asked, April 08, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Celebrating Women in STEM Women’s History Month is dedicated to highlighting the contributions to society made by women. In partnership with BC student organization March 25, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam 6 Employers Give You Their Career Fair Advice Registration for the Boston College Career Fair opens to all students on February 7th. As you think about how to January 24, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam How to Land a Summer Internship in Healthcare & Nursing As our Summer Experience Dashboard shows us, the vast majority of students land their summer experiences — whether internships, research, October 27, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Meet the Healthcare and Nursing Student Advisory Board Last spring, the Career Center recruited students to serve as advisors for our career clusters during the 2021-2022 academic year. September 20, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Visit Blog Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College