Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Health Services, Policy & Practice Home AcademyHealth Global Health Engagement HSR Seminar Series About Doctoral Program Research People News Site Navigation Home AcademyHealth 2021 Virtual ARM HSR PhD Student Courtney Johnson wins the 2021 AcademyHealth Best Abstract of the Health Economics Interest Group (HEIG)! 2020 ARM | Virtual 2019 ARM | Washington, D.C. 2018 ARM | Seattle 2017 ARM | New Orleans 2016 ARM | Boston Global Health Engagement HSR Seminar Series About From the Chair Doctoral Program Program Description Course Requirements What Our Students Are Saying What Our Faculty Are Saying Dissertation Spotlight Job Market Candidates Alumni Research People Doctoral Students Faculty Administrative Core Staff Department Leadership News <node> HSR Seminar Series See Our Complete Lineup Of Outstanding Health Services Researchers Below! The Health Services Research (HSR) Seminar Series The HSR Seminar Series is hosted by the Department of Health Services, Policy, and Practice with funding from the C. V. Starr Lectureship. The goal of the series is to expose graduate students, post-doctoral students and faculty both in the School of Public Health and across Brown University to cutting-edge research in a variety of health services research-related areas. This includes gerontology, quality measurement, quality improvement, health economics, pharmacoepidemiology, pharmacoeconomics, mental health, comparative effectiveness research, behavioral economics and a variety of more methods focused topics of relevance to health services research. The seminars take place throughout the academic year on the third Wednesday with the exception of January and feature leading health services researchers from the New England region and across the US. Contact [email protected] for Zoom Details 2021-2022 Virtual/Hybrid Seminar Series | All Lectures begin at 4 PM 9/15/2021 R. Tamara Konetzka, PhD Louis Block Professor of Public Health Sciences Professor of Medicine University of Chicago Lecture Title: "COVID-19 in Nursing Homes: Lessons for Better Policy." See the video of Dr. Konetzka's lecture. 10/20/2021 Glyn Elwyn, MD, PhD, MSc Professor The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy & Clinical Practice Dartmouth College Lecture Title: "The Exceptional Potential of Shared Decision Making." 11/17/2021 Leemore Dafny, PhD Bruce V. Rauner Professor of Business Administration Harvard Business School 12/15/2021 Valerie Stone, MD, MPH Vice Chair for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Department of Medicine Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School 2/16/2022 Chima Ndumele, MPH, PhD Associate Professor of Public Health (Health Policy) Yale School of Public Health 4/20/2022 Mark Unruh, PhD Associate Professor of Population Health Sciences Weill Cornell Medicine Graduate School of Medical Sciences See the video of this lecture here. 5/18/2022 Fumiko Chino, MD Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Lecture Title: "Financial Toxicity and Cancer in America." Watch Dr. Chino's lecture here. 2020-2021 Virtual Seminar Series 9/16/2020 Christopher Koller Professor of the Practice Health Services, Policy & Practice Brown School of Public Health President, Millbank Memorial Fund Former Health Insurance Commissioner, State of Rhode Island Lecture Title: “State Policies for Affordable Healthcare – What does Health Services Research Have To Do With It?” 10/21/2020 Eric Roberts, PhD Assistant Professor University of Pittsburgh Health Policy and Management Lecture Title: “Effects of Cost-sharing Among Low-income Medicare Beneficiaries: Evidence from a Discontinuity in Medicaid Supplemental Coverage." See the video of this exciting lecture here. 11/18/2020 Nicole Gonzalez Van Cleve, PhD Associate Professor, Sociology Brown University Affiliated Scholar, the American Bar Foundation Author, Crook County: Racism and Injustice in America's Largest Criminal Court Lecture Title: "Criminal Justice as a "Welfare Handout": How Criminal Justice Professionals Adapt Welfare Dependency Narratives to the World of Custody and Courts." View Dr. Van Cleve's fascinating lecture here. 12/16/2020 | JOINT LECTURE Melissa Bostrom, PhD Assistant Dean for Graduate Student Professional Development Director, Emerging Leaders Institute & Professional Development Series Manager, the Professional Development Grant program Duke University J. Alan Kendrick, PhD Assistant Dean Graduate Student Development Duke University Lecture Title: “Cultivating a Culture of Mentoring at Duke University Graduate School.” 2/17/2021 Marcella Alsan, MD, MPH, PhD Professor of Public Policy Harvard Kennedy School Lecture Title: "Information Campaigns to Increase the Demand for Vaccination Among Black Men." 3/17/2021 Jeremy Goldhaber-Fiebert, PhD Associate Professor of Medicine Stanford School of Medicine Lecture Title: "Vaccine, Behavior, Viral Variant: Complexity and Models to Inform COVID-19 Policy." 4/21/2021 Madina Agénor, ScD., MPH Gerald R. Gill Assistant Professor of Race, Culture and Society Department of Community Health Tufts University Lecture Title: "Critical Approaches for Incorporating Intersectionality into Health Services Research." 5/19/2021 Andrew Ryan, PhD United Healthcare Professor of Healthcare Management Professor, Health Management and Policy University of Michigan School of Public Health Lecture Title: "A Bundle of Savings? The Effects of Program Design on Savings Potential in Medicare’s New Bundled Payment Program." 2019-2020 Seminar Series 9/18/19 Vicki Fung, PhD Assistant Professor of Medicine Harvard Medical School Lecture Title: "Medicare Policy Effects on Mental Health Care Disparities." View the video of Dr. Fung's lecture (Room 245) 10/16/19 | JOINT LECTURE Sherri Kaplan, PhD, MS, MPH Assistant Vice Chancellor, Healthcare Measurement and Evaluation University of California, Irvine (UCI) School of Medicine Executive Co-Director, UCI Health Policy Research Institute Professor UCI School of Medicine Professor of Anesthesiology and Perioperative Care UCI School of Medicine Sheldon Greenfield, MD Executive Co-Director, Health Policy Research Institute University of California, Irvine (UCI) School of Medicine Donald Bren Professor UCI School of Medicine Professor of Medicine UCI School of Medicine Lecture Title: "The Integration of Genomic, Clinical Severity and Patient-Reported Complexity Variables to Predict Treatment Response and Disease Progression in Early Prostate Cancer." (Room 245) *View the video of this exciting joint lecture here! *Requires log-in with Brown credentials 11/13/19 Abigail Friedman, PhD Yale University Assistant Professor of Public Health (Health Policy) Assistant Professor in the Institution for Social and Policy Studies Lecture Title: "Electronic Cigarettes: Risks and Regulations." (Room 245) 12/11/19 Sherri Rose, PhD Associate Professor of Health Care Policy (Biostatistics) Co-Director of the Health Policy Data Science Lab Department of Health Care Policy, Harvard Medical School Co-editor of the journal Biostatistics Chair-Elect of the American Statistical Association’s Biometrics Section Lecture Title: "Machine Learning for Health Services Research." View the video of Dr. Rose's lecture by logging in with your Brown credentials. (Room 245) 2/12/20 Adolfo Cuevas, PhD Tufts University Assistant Professor, Community Health Lecture Title: "The Association between Psychosocial Stressors and Body Mass Index in Middle-Aged & Older Adults in the United States." View the video for Dr. Cuevas' lecture by login in with your Brown credentials. (Room 375) 2/20/2020 - SPECIAL PRESENTATION Jointly hosted by THE BROWN POLICY LAB AND THE DEPT. OF HEALTH SERVICES, POLICY & PRACTICE Christopher Robertson, MA, PhD, JD Professor of Law Associate Dean of Research and Innovation University of Arizona College of Law Author of Exposed: Why our Health Insurance is Incomplete and What Can Be Done About It 4/15/20 Rescheduled to AY21 Chris Koller, MBA, MAR President, Millbank Memorial Fund Teaching Associate, Brown School of Public Health Former Health Insurance Commissioner, State of Rhode Island Lecture Title: "State Policies for Affordable Healthcare – What does Health Services Research Have To Do With It?" 5/13/20 Rescheduled to AY21 Eric Roberts, PhD Assistant Professor, Health Policy and Management University of Pittsburgh School of Public Health Lecture Title: TBD 2018-2019 Seminar Series 9/12/18 Jane Ann Driver, MD, MPH Assistant Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School Harvard University Boston, MA Lecture Title: "Staging the Aging: Using a Measure of Frailty to Predict Clinical Outcomes." (Room 245) 10/17/18 Signe Peterson Flieger, PhD, MSW Tufts Health Plan Professor of Health Care Policy Research Assistant Professor, Department of Public Health and Community Medicine Tufts University School of Medicine Boston, MA Lecture Title: "A Mixed Methods Approach to Studying Health Care Organizations: Structures, Culture, and Implementation." (Room 245) 11/14/18 Dan Ollendorf, PhD Director, Value Measurement & Global Health Initiatives Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health Institute for Clinical Research and Health Policy Studies Assistant Professor of Medicine, Tufts Medical Center Boston, MA Lecture Title: "Evaluating and valuing drugs for rare diseases: No easy answers." (Room 245) 12/12/18 Junenette L. Peters, PhD Assistant Professor Environmental Health Boston University Lecture Title: "Joint exposure to metals and social stressors in relation to aging-related diseases." (Room 245) 2/13/19 Yvette C. Cozier, D.Sc. Associate Professor of Epidemiology Assistant Dean for Diversity and Inclusion Boston University School of Public Health Boston University Lecture Title: “The Black Women's Health Study (BWHS): A Follow-Up Study of Black /African American Women.” (Room TBA) 3/13/19 Sharon K. Inouye, M.D., MPH Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School Division of Gerontology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center Milton and Shirley F. Levy Family Chair Director, Aging Brain Center, Institute for Aging Research Hebrew SeniorLife, Boston, MA Lecture Title: "Delirium in Older Adults: A Public Health Priority." (Room 245) 4/17/19 Margarita Alegria, Ph.D. Professor, Departments of Medicine & Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School Chief, Disparities Research Unit, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital Lecture Title: "Changing the Landscape of Mental Health Services for the 21st Century." (Room 245) 5/15/19 Charles F. Manski, PhD Professor Department of Economics Northwestern University Lecture Title: "Patient Care under Uncertainty." (Room 245) 2017-2018 Seminar Series 9/20/17 John B. Wong, MD Professor of Medicine and Physician, Department of Medicine Director, Comparative Effectiveness Research, Tufts CTSI, Tufts Medical Center Lecture Title: "What do epidemiology, comparative effectiveness, and behavioral economics have to do with breast cancer screening?" View the video of Dr. Wong's lecture 10/04/17 Joe Cappelleri, MPH, PhD Executive Director of Biostatistics Pfizer, Inc and Adjunct Professor of Biostatistics, Brown University Lecture Title: "Applying the Rasch Model to Validate and Interpret a Kidney Symptom Index for Patients with Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma" View the video of Dr. Cappelleri's lecture 11/07/17 Eric Tchetgen, PhD Professor of Biostatistics and Epidemiologic Methods Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Harvard University Lecture Title: "Instrumental Variable Methods to Account for Non-Response Bias in Household HIV Testing Studies" View the video of Dr. Tchetgen's lecture 11/29/17 Karen R. Sepucha, PhD Assistant Professor Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School Harvard University Lecture Title: "Shared Decision Making: Lessons from practice" View the video of Dr. Sepucha's lecture 2/07/18 Anna Sinaiko, MPP, PhD Research Scientist Department of Health Policy and Management Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health Harvard University Lecture Title: “The impact of Reference-Based Pricing for imaging services on choice of provider and spending in a national health plan” 4/04/18 William Hsiao, PhD K.T. Li Research Professor of Economics Department of Health Policy and Management Department of Global Health and Population Harvard Global Health Institute Harvard University Lecture Title: "Why the USA will adopt Medicare for All" 5/02/18 Daria Pelech, PhD Principal Analyst Congressional Budget Office Washington D.C. Lecture Title: "New Duals? Testing for a Welcome Mat Effect from the Affordable Care Act among Medicare Beneficiaries" 2016-2017 Seminar Series 9/14/16 Franziska Rokoske, PT, MS Director, End-of-Life, Palliative, and Hospice Care (EPHC) RTI International Lecture Title: "What Do We Know About Hospice Quality?" Location: Room 245 View the video of Dr. Rokoske's lecture here. 10/19/16 James Rudolph, MD, MS Associate Professor of Medicine Associate Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice, Brown School of Public Health Director, The Center of Innovation in Long Term Services and Support (LTSS COIN) Lecture title: "Pairing HSR with Practice: the VA LTSS Center of Innovation" Location: Room 245 View the video of Dr. Rudolph's lecture here. 11/11/16 Peter Haas Associate Director Humanity Centered Robotics Initiative Brown University Lecture Title: "New Tech for Boomers the Coming Wave of Robotics in Elder Care" Location: Room 245 12/14/16 Nancy L. Keating, MD, MPH Professor, Medicine, Harvard Medical School (HMS) Associate Professor, Health Care Policy, HMS Associate Physician, Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital Lecture Title: “Diffusion and Use of Bevacizumab in Oncology Practices” Location: Room 375 2/08/17 James E. Stahl, MD, CM, MPH Section Chief, General Internal Medicine, Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center Associate Professor of Medicine, Geisel School of Medicine Lecture Title: "Economics of Mind-body Medicine" Location: Room 375 3/02/17 Peter Whitehouse, MD, PhD Professor of Neurology Case Western University Lecture Title: “Dementia and the arts: transdisciplinary perspectives through a public health policy lens” View the lecture video here 3/08/17 Amresh Hanchate, PhD Associate Professor, Boston University School of Medicine, Health Economist, VA Boston Healthcare Lecture Title: "Determinants of Hospital Destination for ED Care" Location: Room 375 4/11/17 Joshua Salomon, PhD Professor of Global Health Department of Global Health and Population Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Lecture Title: “Decision analysis and simulation modeling for public health policy” Location: Room 245 5/04/17 Jennifer Tjia, MD, MSCE Associate Professor of Quantitative Health Sciences and Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School Division of Epidemiology of Chronic Diseases and Vulnerable Populations Lecture Title: “Reducing Antipsychotic Use in Nursing Homes: A Tale of Two Intervention Studies” Location: Room 245 5/09/17 Christine W. Hartmann, PhD Research Associate Professor, Boston University School of Public Health and Research Health Scientist, Center for Healthcare Organization and Implementation Research, Bedford VA Medical Center Lecture Title: “Quality improvement and research: how to build on existing strengths” View the lecture video here 2015-2016 Seminar Series 9/09/15 Emily F. Oster, PhD Associate Professor of Economics and Associate Professor International and Public Affairs Brown University Lecture Title: "Diabetes and Diet: Behavioral Response and the Value of Health" 10/14/15 Julie Robison, PhD Associate Professor of Medicine University of Connecticut UConn Center on Aging Lecture Title: "Connecticut's Money Follows the Person Demonstration: A Successful University - State Agency Partnership" View the video of Dr. Robison's lecture 11/11/15 Thomas Sequist, MD, MPH Associate Professor of Medicine and Health Care Policy at Harvard Medical School Chief Quality and Safety Officer at Partners HealthCare Lecture Title: "Quality of Care in the Indian Health Service" 12/17/15 Nancy Kressin, PhD Professor Boston University School of Medicine Lecture Title: “Unequal Lives, Unequal Treatment, Unequal Outcomes: Transforming Good Intentions into Meaningful Action to Address Health Disparities” View the video of Dr. Kressin's lecture 2/10/16 Terri Fried, MD Professor of Medicine (Geriatrics) Yale School of Medicine Lecture Title: "Promoting Advance Care Planning as a Healthy Behavior" View the video of Dr. Fried's lecture 3/09/16 Ben Sommers, PhD Assistant Professor of Health Policy an Economics Department of Health Policy and Management Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Lecture Title: "Medicaid Expansion versus the Private Option: Changes in Access to Care, Churning and Health" 4/06/16 Carrie Colla, PhD Associate Professor The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice Geisel School of Medicine Lecture Title: "Effects of ACOs on High Cost, High Need Elderly" 5/18/16 Marcella Nunez Smith, MD, MHS Associate Professor of Medicine Yale School of Medicine Founding Director of Equity and Research Innovation Center (ERIC). Lecture Title: "Using Community-Based Participatory Research (CBPR) Principles to Shape a Local and Global Health Equity Research Portfolio" View the video of Dr. Nunez Smith's lecture Home AcademyHealth Global Health Engagement HSR Seminar Series "Invited lectures include diverse scholars with interests that span the field of HSR." Ira Wilson Professor and Chair The Department of Health Services, Policy & Practice, Brown School of Public Health The Department of Health Services, Policy & Practice, Brown School of Public Health 121 South Main St. Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top