Skip to content Clemson University Center for Workforce Development|cucwd@clemson.edu Search for: CA2VES About CA2VES Coordination Network Webinar Series EducateWorkforce About EducateWorkforce Visit EducateWorkforce.com Virtual Reality Simulation Library Resources Research About About The Center The Team News Contact Us Search for: HomeDavid Lee2022-01-05T16:06:28-05:00 Workforce Education and Research Helping build a knowledgeable and sustainable workforce The Center for Workforce Development is looking for instructors to pilot our Robotics Curriculum. Learn More News from the Clemson University Center for Workforce Development Create a Technical Maintenance Support Team That Helps Decrease Downtime David Lee2022-04-14T09:53:50-04:00April 14th, 2022| Read More CA2VES Coordination Network Innovation Award Winner David Lee2021-06-25T14:54:59-04:00June 25th, 2021| Read More SCCMS: STEM Education Day at the State Capitol David Lee2021-03-10T15:47:23-05:00March 10th, 2021| Read More View our “ATE Connects” video highlight from the 2021 NSF ATE PI Conference Sorry, your browser doesn't support embedded videos. Strategic goals of the Clemson University Center for Workforce Development CUCWD supports demand-driven education, research, dissemination and outreach that will advance economic development and enhance employment opportunities for South Carolinians thereby providing industry with a highly qualified talent pool of next generation technicians, engineers and scientists. Our strategic goals include: Design high-quality digital learning tools Create curricula, virtual reality simulations, and teaching and learning resources for online and hybrid environments Facilitate distribution of digital learning tools Accelerate the dissemination of our learning tools via EducateWorkforce.com Improve technological workforce diversity and quality Utilize sustainable pathways and innovative STEM integration Provide rigorous evidence-based research Technological education and workforce development research projects Virtual Reality Simulations and Digital Learning Tools CUCWD creates novel learning experiences with rich media and virtual reality simulations. Our online learning platform, EducateWorkforce™, is designed for easy accessibility and comprehensive means of engagement. Virtual Reality Development The Clemson University Center for Workforce Development actively produces virtual reality simulations in-house for educational partners and industry clients. Simulation content covers a wide spectrum of scenarios including full manufacturing floor representations to proprietary equipment function and safety features. Our simulations are designed for maximum accessibility, and run inside a web browser in virtually any operating system. Online Learning Platform: EducateWorkforce™ CUCWD’s online learning platform is called EducateWorkforce™. It is the first platform specifically built for and tailored to the unique needs of 2-year institutions. It consists of both basic and advanced courses focusing on the needs of technician education. EducateWorkforce™ is comprised of video lectures, virtual reality simulations, open texts, and interactive assessments. Students express what they know through varied, targeted and research based assessment strategies, activities and instant learner feedback. Online Learning Modules Created 0 Virtual Reality Simulations Created 0 Partners’ Perspectives CUCWD depends on strong relationships with our partners from technical colleges and industry. We wouldn’t be able to achieve our goals without their support, and their feedback is essential in shaping our offerings and activities. “CUCWD’s innovative approach to learning gives schools the opportunity to adopt aviation-focused content without the high facility, equipment, and material cost typically associated with aviation programs.” Crystal Maguire Executive Director, Aviation Technician Education Council “CA2VES is at the forefront of developing innovative tools to train the next generation of skilled manufacturing technicians. We are proud to work with the team to build these exciting curricula and VR technologies.” David Clayton Executive Director, Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) The CUCWD/CA2VES staff is an amazing team of scholar practitioners. Their ability to develop research-based solutions to assist technical colleges with advanced manufacturing pedagogy using virtual reality and AI platforms is second to none. Hope Rivers President, Piedmont Technical College Get it touch with us directly to learn more. CONTACT US The Clemson University Center for Workforce Development is a South Carolina Commission on Higher Education approved, statewide P-20 initiative to improve workforce educational capacity in STEM fields across South Carolina. This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant numbers 2033801 and 1700621. Recent Posts Create a Technical Maintenance Support Team That Helps Decrease Downtime April 14, 2022 CA2VES Coordination Network Innovation Award Winner June 25, 2021 SCCMS: STEM Education Day at the State Capitol March 10, 2021 SEARCH THIS SITE Search for: Copyright Clemson University Center for Workforce Development | All Rights Reserved Page load link Go to Top