Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Harvard Chan School Employment Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > Harvard Chan School Employment Harvard Chan School Employment Menu Search for: Home Applying for Staff/Administrative Postions Faculty Positions Staff Positions University Wide Job Search Welcome People want to work at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health because they believe in the mission of our school and that they too can make a difference working here. We welcome and are committed to supporting and celebrating individuals from all backgrounds, countries, and cultures. Harvard Chan School offers careers in research, finance, information technology, communications, and general administration. In addition, we offer an array of top notch benefits including medical and dental packages, paid time off, child care, various discounts and perks, and a generous fitness and wellness benefit. From advancing scientific discovery to training national and international leaders, the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health has been at the forefront of efforts to benefit the health of populations worldwide. Shaping new ideas in our field and communicating them effectively will continue to be priorities in the years ahead as we serve society’s changing health needs. For information on current opportunities, please visit: Applying for staff or administrative positions at Harvard Chan Harvard Chan faculty openings Harvard Chan staff jobs All Harvard University jobs News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College