COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert COVID-19 Testing and Vaccinations Current WSU students, faculty and staff can now walk in for a free COVID-19 test at Student Health Services. For registration and eligibility for testing visit our COVID-19 Testing page. For registration, eligibility and locations for vaccines visit our COVID-19 Vaccinations page. Free Walk-In COVID-19 Vaccines Section Menu Student Health Services Home After Hour Care / Medical Emergencies About Us COVID-19 Testing COVID-19 Vaccinations Events Forms Health Insurance Medications Meningitis Office Hours Policies Services Travel and Health Advisories Tuberculosis Uploading Health Documents Vaccination Information Vaccination Videos Wellness Resources COVID vaccines options for WSU community Updated April 8, 2022 Walk-in Covid Vaccinations Student Wellness Center Monday 9:00am - 4:00 pm Tuesday 9:00am - 4:00 pm Wednesday 9:00am - 4:00 pm Thursday 9:00am - 4:00 pm Friday 9:00am - 4:00 pm No appointment necessary Eligibility: WSU and WSU Tech facility, staff, students and immediate family members, Innovation Campus Partners Ages 18 and over Please bring WSU ID, Covid Vaccine Card and completed Covid Dispense Assist Form: https://dispenseassist.net/Covid.html Koch Arena Wednesday, 9 a.m.-1 p.m. No appointment necessary Eligibility: Community Adult and pediatric vaccinations Administered by Sedgwick County Health Department https://www.sedgwickcounty.org/covid-19/vaccine/clinic-locations/ WSU and WSU Tech students, employees and innovation partners On-campus vaccination clinics are located in WSU Student Health Services, which is located inside the YMCA on the WSU campus. Check-in for vaccination appointments will be located inside the WSU Student Wellness Center. To schedule an appointment for yourself or an immediate family member, sign into myWSU and go to the Home tab under the WSU logo in the top left corner. Then go to “Schedule Your COVID Vaccine Appointment” link on the left-hand side under "COVID-19 Toolkit." An “immediate family member” means child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including any adoptive relationships, and any residing in same household. Family members need to be residents of Sedgwick County, Kansas. For anyone receiving a vaccination through SHS, please follow these directions to save you time and to help SHS conserve our limited supply of vaccine: You will receive an email confirmation with your appointment date and time. Please keep your scheduled appointment! If you cannot keep your appointment, please cancel in a timely fashion so the appointment time is available for others. The option to cancel your appointment is in the confirmation email. Bring the completed Dispense Assist form and your WSU ID, or other form of ID, with you for the appointment. DO NOT arrive earlier than 10 minutes prior to your appointment time. All individuals will be required to complete a 15 to 30 minute observation period after receiving the vaccine. Public Vaccination Clinics In partnership with the Sedgwick County Health Department (SCHD), Wichita State University is hosting a weekly public walk-in COVID-19 vaccination clinic from 9 a.m.-3 p.m. every Wednesday at Charles Koch Arena, 1845 Fairmount St. on the WSU campus. The SCHD will provide Comirnaty (Pfizer) and Johnson & Johnson (J&J) vaccines, both at no cost. For questions, call 316-660-1022 or email COVID19@sedgwick.gov. Get directions to Charles Koch Arena Other vaccine options SCHD also offers no-cost, walk-in vaccines at the community vaccine clinic at 223 S. Main in Wichita, as well as COVID-19 testing at the Sunflower Shelter Building at Sedgwick County Park, 6501 W. 21st St. in Wichita. Please visit the SCHD COVID-19 website for more information on days and time sites and clinics are available. All WSU and WSU Tech students, employees, immediate family members (18 or older) and innovation partners can receive a free COVID-19 vaccination through WSU’s Student Health Services. Learn more at wichita.edu/covidvaccine. If you have general questions about COVID-19, please call 316-660-1022 or visit sedgwickcounty.org/covid-19/ for more information. Vaccination Videos Not knowing how the COVID-19 vaccine works might make you nervous. Learn what to expect when you get your vaccination from Student Health Services. Videos are available in English, Spanish and Vietnamese. See Vaccination Videos CDC Vaccines and Immunizations Glossary Frequently Asked Questions Are all WSU/WSU Tech students, staff, or faculty eligible to receive the COVID-19 vaccine from SHS? Yes. All WSU and WSU Tech students, staff or faculty, age 18 or older, are eligible to receive the COVID-19 vaccine from Student Health. SHS has been authorized by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment to distribute the COVID-19 vaccine to all eligible members of the WSU and WSU Tech communities. The vaccine will be administered in accordance with all State of Kansas and Sedgwick County guidance on vaccine prioritization. Are all WSU on-campus industry partner employees eligible to receive the COVID-19 vaccine from SHS? Yes. As of July 19, all WSU on-campus industry partners employees are eligible to receive COVID-19 vaccine from SHS. Alternative vaccination locations can be found at vaccinefinder.org. WSU has been authorized by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment to distribute the COVID-19 vaccine to all eligible employees of WSU’s on-campus industry partners. In order for an industry partner to be “eligible,” the employee must (1) be employed by any business or company that is located on the WSU main campus (1845 Fairmount Street location); (2) regularly perform work on the WSU main campus (1845 Fairmount Street location); and (3) fall within the current vaccine prioritization group established by the State of Kansas and Sedgwick County. The vaccine will be administered in accordance with all State of Kansas and Sedgwick County guidance on vaccine prioritization. Campus partners can use a non-WSU email address such as their corporate email address and go through the password reset process if needed. For assistance with the password reset process, please contact WSU’s ITS Help Desk at 316-978-4357. For individuals who are not found in the WSU system, please contact your company’s HR or partner representative. Are immediate family members of WSU/WSU Tech students, staff, and faculty able to get the vaccine from SHS? Yes. As of May 1, 2021, immediate family members age 18 or older, will be able to schedule appointments to receive the COVID-19 vaccination through SHS. For purposes of vaccine administration, “immediate family members” means child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including any adoptive relationships, and any individuals residing in same household. The vaccine will be administered in accordance with all State of Kansas and Sedgwick County guidance on vaccine prioritization. Appointments for immediate family members must be scheduled using the relevant WSU or WSU Tech student, staff or faculty identification number (e.g., myWSU ID). Who is considered an “immediate family member”? An “immediate family member” means child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including any adoptive relationships, and any residing in same household. Family members need to be residents of Sedgwick County, Kansas. (Family members must also be in an eligible vaccine prioritization group to receive the vaccine.) Are WSU/WSU Tech retirees (including but not limited to emeritus faculty) eligible to get the vaccine from SHS? No. At this time, SHS is only authorized to vaccinate current WSU and WSU Tech students, faculty and staff and their families, and WSU on-campus industry partner employees. If I live in another county but am a current WSU/WSU Tech student, staff, or faculty member, am I able to get the vaccine from SHS? SHS has been authorized by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment to distribute the COVID-19 vaccine to all eligible WSU and WSU Tech students, faculty and staff and their families, and WSU on-campus industry partner employees regardless of whether they reside outside Sedgwick County. Family members will need to live in Sedgwick County. If I have already received my first vaccine dose from another site, can I get my second vaccine dose from SHS? No. Individuals who have already received the first vaccine dose at another location should return to that location for the second vaccine dose to assist with vaccination dose tracking and allotments. SHS will not be able to administer the second vaccine dose. How will I be notified when vaccine becomes available? Availability of vaccine will be announced through WSU Today, Shocker Blast and Campus Connection. How do I schedule an appointment for the vaccine? Sign into myWSU and go to the Home tab under the WSU logo in the top left corner. Then go to “Schedule Your COVID Vaccine Appointment” link on the left-hand side under "COVID-19 Toolkit." PLEASE DO NOT SCHEDULE AN APPOINTMENT IF YOU ARE NOT PART OF THE CURRENT ELIGIBLE POPULATION (As of Aug. 18, eligible populations include WSU and WSU Tech students, faculty and staff and their immediate family members age 18 or older, and WSU on-campus industry partner employees.) If you schedule an appointment but do not meet the current eligibility criteria, you will not receive the vaccine. No walk-in vaccine appointments are available. How will I know when to get my second vaccine dose? Your second vaccine does will be administered in accordance with the manufacturer’s guidelines (usually 21 or 28 days after the first dose). You will receive further information on scheduling the second dose when you receive your first dose. Please follow all instructions. Where will I get my vaccination? Vaccines will be administered at the Steve Clark YMCA and WSU Student Wellness Center located on the WSU main campus. Vaccine clinics appointment times and dates may vary based on vaccine availability. Access to health care and COVID-19 testing appointments may be limited on vaccine clinic days. Has WSU established its own priority for vaccine administration? No. SHS will administer the vaccine in accordance with all State of Kansas and Sedgwick County guidance on vaccine prioritization. To learn more about whether you or your family members are eligible for the vaccine, please click here. What is the current vaccination phase? To learn more about what vaccination distribution phase Kansas is currently in, consult the KDHE website. These phases are defined by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment and the Sedgwick County Health Department. Do I have to remain at SHS after receiving the vaccination? Yes. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that all individuals who receive the vaccine be observed for a minimum of 15 minutes post-vaccination. Some individuals may need to be observed for a longer period of time based on their health conditions and/or current medications. Do I need to provide any paperwork or identification to receive the vaccine? Yes. Assuming you are in the eligible population – which includes all WSU and WSU Tech employee, students, and immediate family members age 18 and up - the following documents are required: If you are a current WSU/WSU Tech student, staff or faculty member, you must bring your myWSU ID, the appointment confirmation email (digital or printed) and a completed Dispense Assist form. If you are an immediate family member of a current WSU/WSU Tech student, staff or faculty member, you must bring some form of ID, the appointment confirmation email (digital or printed) and the completed Dispense Assist form. If you are an employee of a WSU on-campus industry partner, you must bring a company employee ID or a letter from your employer verifying you are an eligible employee, some form of ID, the appointment confirmation email (digital or printed) and the completed Dispense Assist form. Who is eligible for Covid-19 vaccine boosters? All Kansans at least 18 years old and have met the 6-month time period following the primary vaccination series for the Moderna or Pfizer vaccine, or it has been at least 2 months since their Johnson & Johnson vaccine, are eligible and encouraged to receive a first booster dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. Immunocompromised individuals and people over the age of 50 are eligible for second mRNA booster 4 months after the first booster dose. Get CDC information about boosters What is Dispense Assist? Dispense Assist is a free service and online screening tool used to register for vaccination. Dispense Assist does not retain personal, protected health information or other personal data that you provide. What if I am eligible to receive the vaccine, but the available SHS appointment times do not work with my schedule? For more information on alternate vaccine sites, please visit the Sedgwick County Health Department website or visit www.vaccinefinder.org. If I am a current WSU/WSU Tech staff or faculty member, do I need to request time off and use accumulated leave to receive the vaccine? No. Current WSU/WSU Tech staff and faculty members are not required to use accumulated leave to receive the vaccine. If an employee is scheduled to receive the vaccine during scheduled work hours, the employee should visit with their supervisor and request a reasonable amount of time away from work to receive the vaccination and complete the observation period. Is the vaccine safe? If you have questions about the safety of the vaccine, please speak with your health care provider and/or review the information available from the CDC. What are the side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine? According to the Sedgwick County Health Department, the most common side effects of the vaccine include pain at the injection site, tiredness, headache, muscle pain, chills, joint pain and fever. Most people experience these side effects after the second dose. Side effects typically last several days. Which vaccine will I get? SHS will be using the Pfizer vaccine. Where do I park? For WSU students, staff and faculty, please follow normal university parking rules. For WSU Tech students, staff and faculty, please park in any Green, Yellow or Green/Yellow striped lots. No ePermit is required (unless you have been to the main WSU campus three times in the current semester). See the WSU parking map. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©