Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Disability Studies Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Disability Studies Certificate (Graduate) Apply Visit Request More Info Disability Studies Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Our Faculty Disability Studies Graduate Certificate The Disability Studies Graduate Certificate offered by the College of Education and Human Development focuses on an interdisciplinary approach to exploring disability from cultural, historical and sociopolitical perspectives. This program draws from a variety of disciplines including health professions, liberal arts and social sciences. Coursework includes research into disability rights and culture, as well as universal design and ecological aspects of disability. Students will also gain an understanding of disability as it relates to their personal, professional and social lives. Additionally, Temple’s social justice mission provides a basis for collaboration on a variety of programs across the university. Classes & Curriculum You must complete 12 credit hours (four courses) in order to earn the certificate. Classes include Disability Rights and Culture and Field Work in Disability Studies. View the full Disability Studies certificate curriculum. Delivery Method All courses for the Disability Studies Graduate Certificate can be completed online or in classrooms on Temple's Main Campus in Philadelphia. You can enroll part-time and have up to two years to complete the certificate program. Related Graduate Degrees Applied Behavior Analysis MSEd Education PhD with a concentration in Special Education Special Education MEd Related Graduate Certificates Applied Behavior Analysis Autism Endorsement Careers As all social institutions grapple with the changing nature of public and private participation by people with disabilities, students with a Disability Studies Graduate Certificate are well-suited for employment in a wide variety of careers in community planning, K–12 schools and higher education, and public policy and advocacy. Voluntary Internships Internships give you opportunities to get hands-on experience, refine your understanding of your coursework and make professional contacts who can assist your future career development. Internships are voluntary experiences that take place outside of the program curriculum: students do not receive credit for internships. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Kate Fialkowski, director of academic programs in the Institute on Disabilities at Temple University, is the academic program coordinator for the Disability Studies Graduate Certificate. Phone: 215-204-6560 Email: iod@temple.edu Our Advisors A faculty program coordinator provides academic support and helps students navigate the certificate program. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-DISS-GRAD Additional Program Information Available online. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Disability Studies Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Our Faculty Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info