Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content College of Human Sciences Search the website Open Search Box Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Employers Home> Current Students> Career Services> Employers Hire a Cyclone To connect with high-quality candidates, employers can partner with the College of Human Sciences Career Services office to participate in career events and share internships and job opportunities. View the CHS majors page and guide to CHS majors by career area for more specific information on our programs. Partner with Us We value our relationship with employers and want to help you find success in meeting your recruitment needs. Through our office, you can take advantage of several services that streamline your hiring and recruitment efforts: Post internship and job openings online with CyHire, and take advantage of the broad pool of our student and alumni candidates. Conduct on-campus interviews using our interviewing suites. Interview a broad range of prospective employees at one time, in one place. Request an interview schedule in CyHire. Reach out to potential employees and establish an Iowa State presence at college-sponsored career fairs in the fall and spring. Pre-screen candidates from a concentrated source of qualified applicants. Information sessions: Contact the Human Sciences Career Services office for more information. Advertise your information session in CyHire so students will be informed of your event. Internship Guide Policies and Best Practices Visiting campus Campus maps Lodging and dining in Ames Need More Information? Human Sciences Career Services 131 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-1078 515-294-0626 hscareers@iastate.edu Career Services Career Fairs Business, Industry and Technology Career Fair People to People Career Fair Teacher Education Career Fair Career Services Events Resumes and Other Communication Interviewing Job and Internship Search Internships Heddleson Internship With Extension and Outreach Internships and Post-Graduation Reports Evaluating Job Offers Employers Posting a job Student Spotlight: Natali Jouzi “I am still trying to figure out what I love. The more experiences I have is for the better.” View Visit CyHire! Student Alumni Faculty Employer Close Video Player Facebook Link Instagram Link Youtube Link Twitter Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact Office of the Dean 2155 Lagomarcino Hall | 901 Stange Road Ames, Iowa 50011-1041 Phone: 515-294-7800 Student Services 131 Mackay Hall | 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-1078 Phone: 515-294-6466 Quick Links iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility