Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Watson Institute Breadcrumb Home News from Brown News Search Subscribe to our weekly newsletter 30 Results based on your selections. News and Events Brown economist named one of TIME’s 100 Most Influential People of 2022 May 23, 2022 Professor of Economics Emily Oster received the distinction for her work in translating data into simple, rational guidance for parents worldwide. Read Article Open details for Brown economist named one of TIME’s 100 Most Influential People of 2022 Social Sciences Facebook whistleblower kicks off William R. Rhodes ’57 Lecture Series on Ethics of Capitalism April 27, 2022 Frances Haugen told an audience of Brown students, faculty and staff that algorithms governing social media are the root of technology’s challenges — and that social media can be a positive force to keep people connected. Read Article Open details for Facebook whistleblower kicks off William R. Rhodes ’57 Lecture Series on Ethics of Capitalism Social Sciences Through research collaboration, Brown scholars aim to improve experiences of refugees March 15, 2022 Researchers at Brown’s Center for Human Rights and Humanitarian Studies are working with the Refugee Dream Center in Providence to assess Afghan refugees’ needs and improve military-civilian partnerships across the globe. Read Article Open details for Through research collaboration, Brown scholars aim to improve experiences of refugees News and Events Amid crisis in Ukraine, Brown community unites to provide support, host discussions March 3, 2022 Scholars and others at Brown are joining together to provide support for Ukrainian scholars and people directly affected in the country, and to convene scholarly discussions about the unfolding war with Russia. Read Article Open details for Amid crisis in Ukraine, Brown community unites to provide support, host discussions News and Events $10 million gift to expand Brown scholarship on South Asia February 23, 2022 With support from Parag and Usha Saxena, the renamed Saxena Center for Contemporary South Asia at Brown’s Watson Institute will grow its research, teaching, public policy and programming. Read Article Open details for $10 million gift to expand Brown scholarship on South Asia Social Sciences Brown sociologist weighs in on tensions at the Russia-Ukraine border February 16, 2022 Professor of Sociology Michael D. Kennedy provided historical background on Russia’s relationship with Ukraine and explained how the current crisis could unleash major conflicts across the globe. Read Article Open details for Brown sociologist weighs in on tensions at the Russia-Ukraine border News and Events In visit to Brown, Salman Rushdie discusses freedom of speech, literary influences and more November 5, 2021 During a panel discussion and Q&A on politics, religion and literature, the acclaimed author urged audiences to maintain balance between preserving freedom of speech and fighting the looming specter of totalitarianism. Read Article Open details for In visit to Brown, Salman Rushdie discusses freedom of speech, literary influences and more Social Sciences Costs of the 20-year war on terror: $8 trillion and 900,000 deaths September 1, 2021 A report from the Costs of War project at Brown University revealed that 20 years of post-9/11 wars have cost the U.S. an estimated $8 trillion and have killed more than 900,000 people. Read Article Open details for Costs of the 20-year war on terror: $8 trillion and 900,000 deaths Social Sciences In new book, Emily Oster offers tips for family decision-making August 17, 2021 The Brown economist’s third book, “The Family Firm,” gives parents of elementary school children the tools they need to make informed choices about schooling, extracurriculars and more. Read Article Open details for In new book, Emily Oster offers tips for family decision-making Social Sciences Political ‘couples therapy’ could heal a divided America, study finds July 1, 2021 People were less politically polarized after taking part in workshops modeled on the principles of couples therapy, showed a study conducted by a political scientist at Brown, the nonprofit Braver Angels and other researchers. Read Article Open details for Political ‘couples therapy’ could heal a divided America, study finds Health and Medicine Conversations on COVID: Brown emergency medicine fellow in Nepal is fighting COVID-19 on multiple fronts June 17, 2021 Dr. Ramu Kharel, a global emergency medicine fellow affiliated with Brown’s Center for Human Rights and Humanitarian Studies, went to Nepal to research emergency medicine and immediately immersed himself in the practice of it. Read Article Open details for Conversations on COVID: Brown emergency medicine fellow in Nepal is fighting COVID-19 on multiple fronts Social Sciences Driven to create policies for a post-pandemic world, Brown’s largest-ever MPA cohort arrives June 16, 2021 The Watson Institute’s one-year master of public affairs program saw a 58% increase in new students in 2021, due in large part to policy issues laid bare during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for Driven to create policies for a post-pandemic world, Brown’s largest-ever MPA cohort arrives Social Sciences Brown sociologist investigates racial gap in treatment of students March 1, 2021 As a 2020 William T. Grant Scholar, Brown sociologist Jayanti Owens embarks on a five-year research plan to study how race impacts teachers’ perceptions of student behavior. Read Article Open details for Brown sociologist investigates racial gap in treatment of students News and Events Brown scholars weigh in on unrest at the Capitol, presidential transition January 13, 2021 Ahead of Joe Biden's inauguration and Donald Trump's potential second impeachment, faculty experts from Brown weighed in on what led to this moment of upheaval and where American politics is headed. Read Article Open details for Brown scholars weigh in on unrest at the Capitol, presidential transition Social Sciences Field research has changed, and so should ethical guidelines, Brown professor says November 24, 2020 A social scientist at Brown is calling on research institutions, leading scientific journals and national professional associations to establish new ethical standards that protect human subjects from emotional, financial and political manipulation. Read Article Open details for Field research has changed, and so should ethical guidelines, Brown professor says News and Events Amid national uncertainty, Brown students, scholars grapple with election analysis November 5, 2020 With millions of votes still untallied as of mid-Thursday, students and faculty analyzed election results and debated the aftermath in a virtual gathering hosted by the Taubman Center for American Politics and Policy. Read Article Open details for Amid national uncertainty, Brown students, scholars grapple with election analysis News and Events What to expect on Election Day, according to Brown's faculty experts October 29, 2020 Eight faculty members shared their analysis on what the nation can expect on Election Day and beyond — at the polls, on the streets and potentially in the courts. Read Article Open details for What to expect on Election Day, according to Brown&#039;s faculty experts Social Sciences Political, environmental, race scholars share presidential debate takeaways October 23, 2020 Faculty at Brown shared their thoughts on the final televised presidential debate before the 2020 election, where the two major candidates sparred over COVID-19, climate change and racial justice. Read Article Open details for Political, environmental, race scholars share presidential debate takeaways Student Life Students, staff and faculty join forces to mobilize student voters at Brown October 21, 2020 With the pandemic presenting new obstacles to voter turnout, collaborative initiatives are enabling and encouraging student participation in the 2020 election and setting the stage for a lifetime of civic engagement. Read Article Open details for Students, staff and faculty join forces to mobilize student voters at Brown Arts and Humanities New series of discussions, performances and podcasts will focus on the migrant experience October 20, 2020 A Sawyer Seminar grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation will fund a series of Brown University-based events and community partnerships focused on migration from and within Latin America and the Caribbean. Read Article Open details for New series of discussions, performances and podcasts will focus on the migrant experience Environment Report issues climate-action recommendations for next U.S. president October 8, 2020 A report released by Brown’s Climate Solutions Lab urged the implementation of a carbon tax and a prohibition on fossil-fuel infrastructure spending, among other recommendations. Read Article Open details for Report issues climate-action recommendations for next U.S. president News and Events Political, economic, health scholars weigh in on first presidential debate September 30, 2020 Faculty at Brown shared their takeaways on the first U.S. presidential debate, where the two candidates discussed the COVID-19 pandemic, the economy, the U.S. Supreme Court and voting by mail. Read Article Open details for Political, economic, health scholars weigh in on first presidential debate Environment Three-year initiative at Brown will study, seek to eliminate roadblocks to climate action September 29, 2020 The Climate Solutions Initiative will focus on overcoming barriers to confronting climate change, through scholarship, learning and research-informed infrastructure changes on campus, in Providence and beyond. Read Article Open details for Three-year initiative at Brown will study, seek to eliminate roadblocks to climate action News and Events Watson Institute gears up for presidential election with screenings, discussions September 21, 2020 Events hosted by the institute involve virtual visits from expert scholars, documentary filmmakers and influential policymakers such as Stacey Abrams, Michael Dukakis and Heidi Heitkamp. Read Article Open details for Watson Institute gears up for presidential election with screenings, discussions News and Events Widespread testing remains key factor in nation’s ability to reopen, experts say August 6, 2020 In a virtual discussion, economist Emily Oster and public health expert Dr. Ashish Jha agreed that embracing imperfect but effective methods, including testing and contact tracing, can keep Americans safe as the country reopens. Read Article Open details for Widespread testing remains key factor in nation’s ability to reopen, experts say Health and Medicine In upcoming events, Dr. Fauci, Brown scholars to discuss nation’s challenges, readiness to reopen July 30, 2020 Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, one of the world's leading infectious disease physicians, will join incoming Brown School of Public Health dean Dr. Ashish K. Jha for a publicly accessible, live-streamed event on Aug. 7. Read Article Open details for In upcoming events, Dr. Fauci, Brown scholars to discuss nation’s challenges, readiness to reopen Social Sciences Brown scholar explores rising tide of anger over economic inequality June 22, 2020 In a talk about his new book, “Angrynomics,” Mark Blyth explained why Westerners are angry over the current economic state and suggested a fix for broken capitalist systems. Read Article Open details for Brown scholar explores rising tide of anger over economic inequality News and Events Andrew Yang reflects on campaign, talks new initiatives in virtual discussion April 23, 2020 A conversation between former presidential candidate Andrew Yang and Democratic National Committee Chair Tom Perez, both Brown alumni, touched on the upcoming general election and the social consciousness of the Brown community. Read Article Open details for Andrew Yang reflects on campaign, talks new initiatives in virtual discussion News and Events Conversations on COVID: The future of the world economy April 1, 2020 Scholars from the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs discussed the potential long- and short-term economic effects of the spread of COVID-19, both in the United States and abroad. Read Article Open details for Conversations on COVID: The future of the world economy Arts and Humanities JFK Jr. film series at Brown confronts urgent social issues January 21, 2020 The film series, led by the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs and by family, friends and classmates of the late Brown alumnus, aims to underscore the importance of documentaries in understanding and confronting challenging social issues. Read Article Open details for JFK Jr. film series at Brown confronts urgent social issues Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Watson Institute Open details for Watson Institute Bookmark this Page