Skip to main content ISU Index Menu iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z ISU Quick Links Menu Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Outlook More Sign Ons... Seed Science Center Main menu Main Menu Home About Us Programs & Facilities News & Events Education & Outreach Contact Us Seed Lab Student ASTA Membership Menu Seed Laboratory BIGMAP About BIGMAP BIGMAP Learning Modules BIGMAP Symposia BIGMAP Research Publications Graduate Program in Seed Technology and Business Global Programs National Seed Health System BIGMAP The Biosafety Institute for Genetically Modified Agricultural Products (BIGMAP) housed in the Seed Science Center at Iowa State University is an unbiased and credible source of information on biosafety issues for genetically modified agricultural products (GMAPs), both nationally and internationally. Established in 2003, institute faculty provide science-based analysis on the risks and benefits of biotech products, as well as guidance and recommendations to policy and regulatory groups, to private entities, and to the public. BIGMAP scientists help to safeguard consumers and the environment by studying the impact of GM products on our health, society, economy, climate, and ecosystem. They also work to enhance educational opportunities and to promote successful careers for students and professionals in the field of risk and benefit analysis as it relates to food systems and the . BIGMAP faculty members are experts in the fields of biotechnology, risk and benefit analysis, seed policies, and regulation. And they play an integral role in enabling the institute to be regarded as a lead developer and clearinghouse of reliable information on plant and animal GM products worldwide. BIGMAP research program areas include: —biosensing —gene flow —quantitative risk assessment —envrionmental fate, and —food safety Providing science-based analysis on the risks and benefits of genetically modified agricultural products. Iowa State University Seed Science Center | Manjit K. Misra, Director 102A Seed Science Center, 2115 Osborn Drive, Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa 50011-1050. Ph. (515) 294-6821, Fax (515) 294-2014. Email: seedsci@iastate.edu homepage: www.seeds.iastate.edu Seed Science Center Hours: Monday-Friday 8:00-5:00 p.m. Summer Hours: 7:30 a.m.- 4:00 p.m. Seed Laboratory: www.seedlab.iastate.edu Connect with us! Facebook Twitter Site Index Site map Copyright © 2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility