COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW About IMCP Section Menu About IMCP IMCP News and Updates IMCP Reports IMCP Letter IMCP Task Force Office of Research Home Page South Kansas Manufacturing Community Tactical Investment in Advanced Manufacturing Capabilities Wichita State University In May 2014, South Kansas was designated by the U.S. Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration (EDA) as a “Manufacturing Community”. South Kansas numbers among the most manufacturing-specialized regions in the United States, with a disproportionately high percentage of employment contingent on the manufacturing sector. The South Kansas Manufacturing Community seeks to make aerospace manufacturing an anchor for a diversified sector, with investments in manufacturing research centers, supply chain integration investments, and up-skilling projects targeting the regional workforce. Decades of production have built a comprehensive network of precision machine shops, tool and die shops, and subcontract manufacturers with some of the most specialized equipment in the world for metal and composites manufacturing. To grow or even maintain its competitive edge, the region has identified a need to deepen its innovative capacity. In particular, the region has crafted a strategy centered on developing university centers of excellence and industry-driven curriculum to support manufacturers in flexible design, advanced materials development, automation, and prototyping. The Benefits for South Kansas Manufacturers and identified partners in the Manufacturing Communities’ original IMCP proposals will be eligible for: Preferential consideration for funding streams identified by the IMCP Participating Agencies as furthering IMCP goals, thereby assisting Manufacturing Communities in bolstering their economic development plans. Communities will only receive preference when applying for grants and projects consistent with the community’s economic development strategy. Possibility of preferential or elevated consideration for contracts with the following IMCP participating federal agencies: Department of Housing & Urban Development Department of Transportation Dept. of Labor, Employment & Training Admin Appalachian Regional Commission Dept. of Commerce Economic Development Admin Environmental Protection Agency Department of Defense Small Business Administration Department of Education National Science Foundation Department of Agriculture Delta Regional Authority Department of Energy A point of contact to assist the Manufacturing Community to access Federal economic development funding and non-funding related to specialized services provided by the IMCP Participating Agencies. These specialized services may include: big data analytics; capacity-building assistance; and capital access consulting. Branding/promotion under the Manufacturing Community designation that may be helpful in attracting partners and investors behind the community’s development strategy. To request additional information about this program and its opportunities, please fill out and submit the following client request form. EDA Links IMCP Overview and Resources IMCP Playbook Frequently Asked Questions Press Releases South Kansas Announced as Manufacturing Community EDA, May 2014 South Kansas is Named a "Manufacturing Community" Wichita State University, May 2014 List of Awardees List of IMCP Awardees 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©