Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Diversity & Inclusion Menu Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It! Baylor>Diversity & Inclusion>Campus Involvement Campus Involvement Baylor University, a nationally ranked research institution with a focus on both academics and Chrisitan faith, is also a thriving campus where students, staff, and faculty alike can experience belonging within many communities and through many programs. Calendar of Upcoming Events To the left, you'll find links to the many departments on campus that offer opportunities to get involved, to share stories, to build strong social ties, to serve our diverse world. Below, you'll find information on a highlighted group of programs that focus on diversity and inclusion. THIS Matters THIS Matters forums offer a series of discussion panels connecting leaders from diverse perspectives to offer context to society's most challenging questions. We attempt to address immediate, unanticipated or unprecedented issues that occur locally and globally, directly and indirectly affecting our campus community. We strive to provide a safe space for students, faculty, staff and members of the community to share ideas and enrich each other’s understanding of the topic. We do not attempt to provide solutions to complex issues or speak on behalf of University officials; instead, we create opportunities to promote dialogue and critical thinking as we further engage with difficult topics. Public Deliberation Initiative The Public Deliberation Initiative (PDI) at Baylor University is an initiative of critical deliberative democracy, activism, interdisciplinary collaboration, pedagogical research, student involvement, and training for ongoing community engagement. This initiative seeks to engage students, staff, faculty, and community members in constructive dialogue and deliberation that addresses important global and local issues and offers new perspectives for participants. Baylor's PDI strives to enhance local civic culture, to increase student/citizen participation in community problem solving, to expand collaborative decision-making on campus and in the local community, and to improve citizenship through civic pedagogy. Baylor PDI is a collaboration between Baylor Formation and Community Engagement and Service. Better Together BU Better Together BU is a departmental program focused on religious diversity and cultural humility. This group is part of a national network of campuses and universities that are passionate about religious and interfaith literacy, sharing their stories, working together to solve global issues, and becoming better leaders and citizens. As part of Baylor Formation in the Office of Spiritual Life, this group models the Formation departmental values of Christian hospitality, responsibility, vocation and depth. Let us hear your voice. Help us tell the story of our #baylorfamily. Beyond participating in the groups above, there are other ways to share your story with our community. Share a unique perspective of what you believe at Baylor This I Believe, a project that is collecting people's stories about something they hold to be true. Additionally, you can voice your prayers across campus at chalkboard prayer walls located at the Bobo and the SUB, the BU Prayer Wall, and at the Bobo Chapel or Elliston Chapel. Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life Multicultural Greek Council National Pan-Hellenic Council THIS Matters Global Baylor General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It!