Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close HOME Admission sites Advanced Placement Advanced Placement There are a number of ways to earn advanced placement units at Boston College including qualifying scores on College Board Advanced Placement (AP) exams, International Baccalaureate exams, British A Level exams, French Baccalaureate exams, as well as results from the German Abitur, and the Swiss Maturité and Italian Maturità. Official results from all testing should be sent to the Office of Transfer Admission for evaluation. Students seeking Advanced Standing, which is the option to complete their undergraduate studies in six semesters of full-time study, shall be in touch with their Academic Dean no sooner than the completion of their first semester at BC. Qualifying scores will be assigned advanced placement units as outlined in the tabs below. For current Boston College students: If your Advanced Placement scores are not reflected on your record on the Agora Portal, please order a new score report from the College Board and have it sent to Boston College. Our code is 3083. Please keep in mind that scores take approximately two weeks to arrive from the College Board. If you have questions about your scores and/or placement, please contact the Office of Undergraduate Admission at uadmit@bc.edu. Thank you. Advanced Placement International Baccalaureate SAT Subject Tests British A-Levels French Baccalaureate Italian Maturità German Abitur Swiss Maturité Advanced Standing - Graduating in 3 Years College Courses Taken During High School Boston College participates in the Advanced Placement program of the College Entrance Examination Board. Applicants interested in advanced placement should make arrangements to take the Advanced Placement Examinations given by the College Board in May of each year. The following table displays Boston College's Advanced Placement policy. Boston College reserves the right to change this policy, as is determined by campus administrators. In general, a student scoring four or five on the exams will be awarded advanced placement. In some instances, a score of three will make a student eligible for advanced placement. In most cases, students do not earn actual credit, rather, they fulfill corresponding requirements in the University Core Curriculum. You will still be required to take the full 120 credits necessary for graduation unless you have the equivalency of 30 AP credits, in which case you may qualify for advanced standing and would be eligible to graduate from Boston College in 3 years. Advanced Placement Exam Exam Score Minimum Advanced Placement Units Requirements Fulfilled* Art History 4 3 Arts Core Biology 4 6 2 Natural Science Core Calculus AB (or AB sub score) 4 3 Math Core Calculus BC 4 6 1 Math Core/1 Math Elective Chemistry 4 6 2 Natural Science Core Chinese Language and Culture 4 6 2 Slavic Language Electives and Language Proficiency Comparative Government and Politics 4 3 1 Social Science Core Computer Science (A or Principles) N/A N/A Students must consult with the department to determine if any placement within the major is appropriate. **Economics (Macro) 4 3 1 Social Science Core / no placement for ECON1101 **Economics (Micro) 4 3 1 Social Science Core / no placement for ECON1101 English Language and Composition 4 3 Writing Core English Literature and Composition 4 3 Literature Core Environmental Science 4 3 1 Natural Science Core European History 4 6 History Core I and II French Language and Culture 3 0 Demonstrates Language Proficiency French Language and Culture 4 3 1 Romance Language Elective and Language Proficiency German Language and Culture 4 6 Demonstrates Language Proficiency Human Geography N/A N/A No BC equivalent Italian Language and Culture 3 0 Demonstrates Language Proficiency Italian Language and Culture 4 3 1 Romance Language Elective and Language Proficiency Japanese Language and Culture 4 6 2 Slavic Language Electives and Language Proficiency Latin 4 6 2 Classical Language Electives and Language Proficiency Music Theory 4 3 Arts Core Physics 1 4 3 1 Natural Science Core Physics 2 4 3 1 Natural Science Core Physics C E+M 4 3 1 Natural Science Core Physics C Mechanics 4 3 1 Natural Science Core Psychology 4 3 1 Social Science Core. Please consult with the Psychology department to determine how placement toward major is appropriate. Research N/A N/A No BC equivalent Seminar N/A N/A No BC equivalent Spanish Language and Culture 3 0 Demonstrates Language Proficiency Spanish Language and Culture 4 3 1 Romance Language Elective and Language Proficiency Spanish Literature and Culture 3 0 Demonstrates Language Proficiency Spanish Literature and Culture 4 3 1 Romance Language Elective and Language Proficiency Statistics 5 3 Fulfills Business Statistics Requirement for CSOM students beginning with Class of 2024 Studio Art 4 3 1 Fine Arts Elective U.S. Government and Politics 4 3 1 Social Science Core U.S. History 4 6 Units included when students apply for Advanced Standing . No University Core / department placement earned. World History 4 6 History Core I and II *Students in the Connell School of Nursing fulfill their Natural Science and Mathematics Core Curriculum requirements through coursework taken during their freshman year. Therefore, qualifying exam scores cannot be used to fulfill those requirements for nursing students. **Beginning with students entering the Spring 2022 term and later, a qualifying score in both Macroeconomics and Microeconomics earns placement for ECON1101 Principles of Economics, which fulfills 1 Social Science Core. Students with qualifying scores in both Macroeconomics and Microeconomics would still need to satisfy the second Social Science Core requirement. Each score of 6 or 7 on Higher Level exams will earn advanced placement units and will generally satisfy a core requirement. You will still be required to take the full 120 credits necessary for graduation, unless you have the equivalency of 30 credits, in which case you may qualify for advanced standing and would be eligible to graduate from Boston College in 3 years. Please reference the table below for specific exams. IB Exam Exam Score Advanced Placement Units Requirements Fulfilled* Dance N/A N/A N/A Film 6/7 3 1 Arts Core Music 6/7 3 1 Arts Core Theatre 6/7 3 1 Arts Core Visual Arts 6/7 3 1 Arts Core Individuals and Societies IB Exam Exam Score Advanced Placement Units Requirements Fulfilled* Business and Management N/A N/A N/A Economics 6/7 3 1 Social Science Core. For Economics majors/minors, will also satisfy Principles of Economics (ECON 1101). Geography N/A N/A N/A Global Politics 6/7 3 1 Social Science Core History of the Americas 6/7 6 History Core I and II History of Europe 6/7 6 History Core I and II Information Technology in a Global Society N/A N/A N/A Islamic History 6/7 3 No Core; 1 History Elective Philosophy 6/7 3 1 Philosophy Core Psychology 6/7 3 No Core; 1 Psychology Elective Social and Cultural Anthropology 6/7 3 1 Social Science Core World Religion 6/7 3 1 Theology Elective Sciences IB Exam Exam Score Advanced Placement Units Requirements Fulfilled* Biology 6/7 6 2 Natural Science Core Chemistry 6/7 6 2 Natural Science Core Computer Science 6/7 3 1 Computer Science Elective** Design Technology N/A N/A N/A Environmental Systems 6/7 3 1 Natural Science Core Physics 6/7 6 2 Natural Science Core Math IB Exam Exam Score Advanced Placement Units Requirements Fulfilled* Mathematics 6/7 3 1 Math Core Further Mathematics 6/7 3 1 Math Core Analysis and Approaches 6/7 3 1 Math Core Applications and Interpretation 6/7 3 1 Math Core Language IB Exam Exam Score Advanced Placement Units Requirements Fulfilled* English A Literature 6/7 3 1 Literature Core English A Language and Literature 6/7 3 1 Writing Core English B Language 6/7 3 1 Writing Core Foreign Language 6/7 6 MCAS Language Proficiency Modern Classical Language 6/7 6 MCAS Language Proficiency * IB elective units cannot be used to fulfill the four arts and sciences electives required for CSOM, but can count toward the 30 units required to be eligible to apply for advanced standing. Electives do not count toward the degree in any other scenario because IB units are generally used for placement only, not credit. ** Students interested in the Computer Science major must consult with the Computer Science Department to determine if these electives can in any way apply to the major. Sports, Exercise and Health Science IB is not recognized by Boston College. All students in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences must demonstrate intermediate-level proficiency in a foreign language in order to graduate from Boston College. The SAT Subject Test scores below demonstrate intermediate-level proficiency at Boston College. SAT Subject Test Exam Score Minimum Requirements Fulfilled Chinese 700 Demonstrates Language Proficiency French 550 Demonstrates Language Proficiency German 600 700* Demonstrates Language Proficiency (*beginning with the Class of 2025) Italian 550 Demonstrates Language Proficiency Japanese 700 Demonstrates Language Proficiency Korean 700 Demonstrates Language Proficiency Latin 600 Demonstrates Language Proficiency Spanish 550 Demonstrates Language Proficiency A-Level Exam Exam Score Minimum Advanced Placement Units Requirements Fulfilled* Accounting N/A N/A N/A Ancient History A/B/C 3 1 History Core Art and Design N/A N/A N/A Art History A/B/C 3 1 Arts Core Art (Fine Art) A/B/C 3 1 Arts Core Astronomy A/B/C 3 1 Natural Science Core Biology A/B 6 2 Natural Science Core Biology C 3 1 Natural Science Core Business N/A N/A N/A Business Studies N/A N/A N/A Chemistry A/B 6 2 Natural Science Core Chemistry C 3 1 Natural Science Core Computer Science A/B/C 3 1 Computer Science Elective Economics A/B 6 2 Social Science Core Economics C 3 1 Social Science Core English Language A/B/C 3 Writing Core Only English Literature A/B/C 3 Literature Core Only Film Studies A/B/C 3 1 Arts Core Geography N/A N/A N/A History A/B/C 6 2 History Core Islamic Studies N/A N/A N/A Languages other than English A/B/C 3 1 Foreign Language Elective/Language Proficiency Maths/Further Maths A/B 6 1 Math Core/1 Math Elective Maths/Further Maths C 3 1 Math Core Music N/A N/A N/A Photography N/A N/A N/A Physics A/B 6 2 Natural Science Core Physics C 3 1 Natural Science Core Psychology A/B/C 3 1 Psychology Core Religious Studies A/B/C 3 1 Theology Core Sociology A/B/C 3 1 Social Science Core Statistics N/A N/A N/A Theatre Studies A/B/C 3 1 Arts Core * There are other A-Level courses offered that do not apply to a degree at Boston College. If the course is not listed here, no advanced placement units can be earned. Scores of 14 or higher* will be considered for a maximum of six credits for each 12th grade Spécialité subject. A minimum score of 12* for each 12th grade Spécialité subject will be considered for a maximum of three credits. Students completing the French Baccalaureate with International Option (OIB) may earn advanced placement units in English and history for corresponding exam scores. Scores below 10 do not qualify. Units may be used to fulfill corresponding University Core or major requirements. *Advanced Placement is based on the French Baccalaureate exam results and is considered in the context of departmental review. Boston College reserves the right to change this policy, as is determined by campus administrators. For students who earn an exam score of 70 or higher on the final exam, advanced placement units will be awarded only for subjects in which the written exam was taken (no placement for oral exams) and the average score for the final exam over the last two years is 7 or higher. No advanced placement units can be earned for English. Placement will be considered for the four subjects scored in the Abitur final exams. For two subjects listed as the "main subject," scores of 10 or higher will earn 6 advanced placement units in corresponding subject areas. For two additional "basic courses" with scores of 10 or higher, 3 advanced placement units will be earned in the corresponding subject areas. No advanced placement units can be earned for English. Advanced placement units can be earned for exam scores of 4 or better. No advanced placement units can be earned for English. Students who earn a total of 30 Advanced Placement units may be eligible for Advanced Standing and have the option to complete their undergraduate studies in three years. Students interested in this option should be in touch with their Dean following completion of their first semester at BC. No decisions on Advanced Standing will be made prior to that time. Students seeking Advanced Standing must be able to complete all degree requirements by the proposed graduation date and be approved for Advanced Standing by the Dean before the start of their third year of undergraduate study. Advanced placement units can be earned for college courses taken during high school according to the following guidelines: Students enrolled in courses designated as “college courses” that are taken at the high school with a high school teacher may only earn advanced placement units if corresponding College Board AP exams are taken and qualifying scores are earned. A college transcript alone cannot be used to earn advanced placement units for these courses. College coursework taken on a college campus with a college professor and with other college students either during the academic year or over the summer may be evaluated for advanced placement units. Only courses that are deemed equal in depth and breadth to coursework taught at Boston College and are being used to supplement high school coursework (and not to fulfill high school requirements) will be considered. Each 3 or 4 credit course with a grade of B or better will earn 3 advanced placement units. Students will still be required to take the full 120 credits necessary for graduation, unless they have the equivalency of 30 credits, in which case they may qualify for Advanced Standing and would be eligible to graduate from Boston College in 3 years. College transcripts for these courses should be submitted to the Office of Transfer Admission by August 1. Students who enroll at a local college to satisfy high school graduation requirements are not eligible for advanced placement units unless they take the corresponding College Board AP exams and earn qualifying scores. Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College