University of Pennsylvania Patient Care Supporting Penn Medicine Home About Us Office of the Dean Office of the EVD/CSO Overview Our Faculty School Leadership School Administration Strategic Plan Careers at PSOM Education Overview MD Program PhD Program MD-PhD and Dual Degree Programs Master’s and Certificate Programs Visiting Students Continuing Medical and Interprofessional Education Biomedical Postdoctoral Programs Graduate Medical Education Other Educational Programs Research Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Inclusion & Diversity Engagement Community Outreach Global Initiatives Employment Move to previous slide Move to next slide The Juardo Lab poses with a portrait of Dr. Helen O. Dickens, the 1st Black woman admitted to the American College of Surgeons & 1st woman to serve in PSOM's OB/GYN faculty. Clinical Cell & Vaccine Production Facility (CVPF) manufacturing team Kathleen Lee, MD, Chareeta Wilson, RN, Chidi Nwakanma, MD, Stephanie Horton, RN & Alice Xie, RN - Penn Presbyterian Medical Center Emergency Department C. William Hanson, III, MD Maya Lin's "DNA Tree of Life" on display at Penn Medicine's new Pavilion Use arrow keys to view gallery Patient Care Research Education Univerity of Pennsylvania and Penn Medicine: Facts and Figures 891 In Annual Sponsored Research Learn More about Research at Perelman School of Medicine 4 University of Pennsylvania Ranked #4 Among the Top STEM Schools for Women Forbes: Top STEM Schools for Women 1 Penn Medicine hospitals ranked #1 among top hospitals in Pennsylvania by U.S. News & World Reports U.S. News: 2021 Best Hospitals 7 Office of Inclusion, Diversity & Equity anchor programs OIDE Anchor Programs Latest News View all news Move to previous slide Move to next slide Penn Medicine Developed CAR T Cell Therapy Wins Third FDA Approval May 28, 2022 Perelman School of Medicine Partners with HBCUs to Increase Student Diversity in Medicine May 24, 2022 More students will have the opportunity to pursue a future in medicine through an expanded partnership between PSOM and five historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs), in an effort by Penn to increase the number of physicians from groups underrepresented in medicine (URiM). Penn Medicine and Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia Announce Partnership with Costa Rica for CAR T Cell Therapy May 23, 2022 Penn Medicine and Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP), who together pioneered the research and development of the world’s first personalized cellular therapy for cancer — also known as CAR T cell therapy — have announced plans with Costa Rica’s CCSS, or the Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social (Social Security Program), to facilitate CAR T research in Costa Rica. Penn Medicine Study Reveals Imaging Approach with Potential to Detect Lung Cancer Earlier, at the Cellular Level May 18, 2022 Researchers at the Abramson Cancer Center at the University of Pennsylvania have found a way to identify lung cancer at the cellular level in real time during a biopsy, offering promise in the ability to detect the disease earlier and with more confidence. First Mutation-Targeted Bladder Cancer Drug May Be Under-Used May 12, 2022 The first bladder cancer drug targeting a cancer-driving gene mutation has been used relatively little despite its clear efficacy in a clinical trial, suggests a study from researchers at the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. Use arrow keys to view news Upcoming Events View all events Move to previous slide Move to next slide Use arrow keys to view events Featured Publications View more on PubMed Move to previous slide Move to next slide Racial and Ethnic Bias in Pulse Oximetry and Clinical Outcomes. Valbuena VSM, Merchant RM, Hough CL JAMA internal medicine. 2022 May 31 High heritability of ascending aortic diameter and trans-ancestry prediction of thoracic aortic disease. Tcheandjieu C, Xiao K, Tejeda H, Lynch JA, Ruotsalainen S, Bellomo T, Palnati M, ... Nature genetics. 2022 May 30 Autoreactive CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells are restrained by an exhaustion-like program that is maintained by LAG3. Grebinoski S, Zhang Q, Cillo AR, Manne S, Xiao H, Brunazzi EA, Tabib T, ... Nature immunology. 2022 May 26 Dual function NFI factors control fetal hemoglobin silencing in adult erythroid cells. Qin K, Huang P, Feng R, Keller CA, Peslak SA, Khandros E, Saari MS, ... Nature genetics. 2022 May 26 Redefining breast cancer subtypes to guide treatment prioritization and maximize response: Predictive biomarkers across 10 cancer therapies. Wolf DM, Yau C, Wulfkuhle J, Brown-Swigart L, Gallagher IR, Lee PRE, Zhu Z, ... Cancer cell. 2022 May 25 Use arrow keys to view publications Back to Top Contact and Directions Perelman School of Medicine University of Pennsylvania 3400 Civic Center Boulevard Building 421, Philadelphia, PA 19104 More Contact Information Maps Social Media Follow Us on Facebook Check out our tweets See our latest posts Quick Links For: Faculty Students Alumni Staff Calendar News A-Z Guide Webmail MY.MED Penn Directory University of Pennsylvania © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team. About Us Office of the Dean Office of the EVD/CSO Overview Our Faculty School Leadership School Administration Strategic Plan Careers at PSOM Close Menu Education Overview MD Program PhD Program MD-PhD and Dual Degree Programs Master’s and Certificate Programs Visiting Students Continuing Medical and Interprofessional Education Biomedical Postdoctoral Programs Graduate Medical Education Other Educational Programs Close Menu Research Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Inclusion & Diversity Engagement Community Outreach Global Initiatives Close Menu Employment Quick Links Supporting Penn Medicine Patient Care @ Penn Medicine University of Pennsylvania Close Menu