Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Department of Marketing & Supply Chain Management Welcome Programs Faculty Research Admissions & Current Students FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact PreviousNext Take Action Majors & Minors Marketing & Supply Chain Management Internship Program Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Nationally Ranked # 6 OnlineCollegeReport.com Best Online BBA in Marketing View All Rankings Home MSCM Welcome Welcome to the Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management! Our mission is to create, develop and disseminate nationally recognized expertise in Global Supply Chain Management and Customer Relationship Management. To support this mission, we offer a number of high-quality academic programs, including undergraduate majors in Marketing Management and Supply Chain Management. We also offer four minors: Marketing Management, Supply Chain Management, Social Media Marketing and Professional Selling. At the graduate level, we have a PhD in Marketing, and offer numerous courses for the MBA, EMBA, and IMBA programs in negotiation, marketing strategy, marketing research, international marketing, quantitative tools, and supply chain management. Our faculty members have diverse areas of expertise including advertising strategy, strategic sourcing and procurement, customer relationship management, supply chain modeling, negotiation, productivity management, systems analysis, services marketing, and management science. Our faculty actively deploy this expertise in their classrooms, their consulting and outreach activities and their published research. Be sure to visit their websites for more information, or visit our main office. Check out the department news link to see faculty publications and other activities. And please do not hesitate to contact me with any questions about our programs. To view our brochure describing our degree programs in Marketing Management and Supply Chain Management, please click here. Come see what we have to offer! Dr. Gregory Boller Chair of Marketing & Supply Chain Management E-mail: gboller@memphis.edu Phone: 901.678.2685 Office Location: FAB 302A Check out our brochure for more information! Perhaps you tune into the Super Bowl as excited to watch the commercials as the game. Maybe you intuitively rack up social media followers. Or, it may be that you’re analytical, strategic, creative, express your ideas clearly and can embrace the big picture. If these traits speak to you, then consider choosing Marketing as your major!! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/9/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.