Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin TEXAS Undergraduate Studies About Mission History Governance & Annual Reports Diversity & Inclusion Staff Directory Contact Us Students Current Students Core & Flag Requirements Scholarships & Awards Advising & Registration Student Council Faculty Core Curriculum Courses Signature Courses Assessment Supplemental Instruction Staff UGS Directory Organizational Chart Senior Staff Business & HR Procedures Design/Web Resources Administrative Tools Assessment Resources Parents & Friends What is UGS? Meet UGS Students Student Scholarships Support UGS Bridging Disciplines Programs Make a Gift Search the Site Search Menu × Bridging Disciplines Programs About Us Programs Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Alumni Student Profiles Calendar Courses Quick Links & Forms BDP Opportunities Blog Contact Us Find Us Flawn Academic Center (FAC) Room 338 2304 Whitis Avenue Austin, Texas – 78712 512-232-7564 Bridging Disciplines Programs on Facebook Follow the BDPs on Instagram Home » bdp » programs » Social Entrepreneurship & Non-Profits Social Entrepreneurship & Non-Profits The Social Entrepreneurship & Non-Profits BDP brings together students who are interested in pursuing a career in the public service sector and expanding their involvement in the community. Non-profit leaders for the 21st century must increasingly understand the blurring of the lines between private, government, and non-profit sectors. The Social Entrepreneurship & Non-Profits BDP allows students to tailor their coursework to fit their interests. For a complete list of courses and requirements, download the Social Entrepreneurship & Non-profits BDP curriculum sheet (PDF). Possible areas of focus include, but are not limited to: Art and Social Change Environment Health and Health Care International Development Youth and Family Community Welfare and Social Justice To learn more about each strand, download the Social Entrepreneurship & Non-Profits Strand Descriptions (PDF). Requirements With 19 credit hours of coursework and Connecting Experiences, students may earn a BDP certificate in Social Entrepreneurship & Non-profits. Courses counting toward a BDP in Social Entrepreneurship & Non-profits may also satisfy core, major, and elective requirements in a student’s degree plan. With planning, the BDP should not add time to students’ UT careers, but instead helps students choose the courses they already have to take in an integrated way. Foundation Courses [7 hours] Forum Seminar Two Additional Foundation Courses Courses in a Strand [3-6 hours] Art and Social Change Environment Health and Health Care International Development Youth and Family Community Welfare and Social Justice Connecting Experiences [6-9 hours] BDP advisors assist students in finding meaningful connecting research and/or internship experiences related to Social Entrepreneurship & Non-profits. At least one of the two required Connecting Experiences (three credit hours each) must have a research emphasis. This can either be a research Connecting Experience, or an internship Connecting Experience in which the student’s internship responsibilities include a research project. Examples of research projects an intern might assist with include, but are not limited to: market research, researching new funding sources, researching a problem for the need statement of a grant proposal, conducting an evaluation to measure the success of a program, research that validates new engagement strategies, or developing a proposal for a new program or initiative. For examples of Connecting Experiences Social Entrepreneurship & Non-profits students have completed in the past, read these Connecting Experience spotlights. Integration Essay Students write a 3-4 page essay at the end of the BDP experience, drawing together the different pieces of the BDP. Faculty Panel The Social Entrepreneurship & Non-Profits faculty panel works with students to tailor their coursework to fit their interests, and to identify research and internship opportunities. Departments All Departments 360 Connections Archer Fellowship Program at UT Austin Awards & Honors Bridging Disciplines Programs Center for the Skills & Experience Flags Core Curriculum Discovery Scholars Program First-Year Experience First-Year Interest Groups Reading Round-Up Research Week Sanger Learning Center Signature Courses Support Undergraduate Studies Texas Success Initiative The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series The LaunchPad Transfer-Year Experience Program Undergraduate Research Vick Center for Strategic Advising © 2022 School of Undergraduate Studies The University of Texas Austin | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy