Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Menu University Updates About Baylor Dashboard COVID-19 Contact Isolation and Quarantine Procedures - 2022 Faculty & Staff Resources How to Report a COVID-19 Positive Case COVID-19 Testing Information Vaccine Information Hybrid or Remote Work Resources Learning Together External Resources FAQs Testing, Face Coverings Vaccination Isolation/Quarantine Procedures Student Health, Pastoral Care and Counseling Services Operations & Facilities Interim COVID-19 Policies/University Requirements General Information About COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Sources Outside of Waco Travel Contacts COVID-19 Testing Vaccination Information Resources Primary Resources For Students For Faculty and Staff Travel Advisories and Resources From the CDC COVID-19 Contact Baylor>Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information>FAQs Frequently Asked Questions Baylor began the spring 2022 semester as scheduled and in person on Jan. 18, with precautionary measures in place through the first two weeks of the semester. On Jan. 31, Baylor announced adjustments its protocols by moving to optional testing, and on Feb. 21, updated its facemask policy to optional facemasks in academic classrooms and labs – other than when requested in private offices. Spring 2022 - Face Coverings, COVID Testing 1. Does the University require COVID testing or facemasks? As we've progressed together through the COVID-19 pandemic over the past two years, Baylor has continued to prioritize the health and well-being of our campus community while periodically adjusting our policies and protocols as warranted. Baylor University shifted to optional testing on Jan. 31, 2022, in recognition of the improving COVID-19 environment and the campus community's continued effective management of the virus. Baylor University updated its facemask policy on Feb. 21, 2022, to optional facemasks in academic classrooms and labs, other than when requested in private offices. Please download a sign available here and place it in your office letting people know your preferences. Masks are required to be worn in the Baylor Health Center and in accordance with the University's Isolation and Quarantine Procedures after an individual has tested positive for COVID-19 or is quarantined due to exposure. 2. As summer begins, can students and employees get tested for COVID-19 on the Baylor campus? Effective Monday, May 16, 2022, the MyLabsDirect COVID testing center at the North Village Community Center will be closed. Testing options if you are symptomatic: Students: If you are symptomatic or have been exposed to a positive case, please log in to the Health Portal on the Health Center website to make an appointment for testing through the Health Center. Employees: If you are symptomatic or have been exposed to a positive case, please contact your personal healthcare provider for testing or access an at-home test kit available through pharmacies, such as CVS, Walgreen's or HEB. The Waco/McLennan County Public Health District provides a helpful list of additional testing resources. Ordering at-home test kits: Residential households in the U.S. are eligible for two orders of four free at-home tests through USPS.com. Baylor faculty and staff can obtain $0 cost COVID-19 at-home tests through CVS Caremark by ordering or by visiting a CVS. You can request your reimbursement online through your Caremark.com account. More info in FAQs. 3. How can Baylor faculty and staff obtain at-home COVID-19 tests? Baylor faculty and staff can obtain free at-home COVID-19 tests through CVS Caremark by ordering or by visiting a CVS. Learn more about how you can get $0 cost COVID-19 at-home tests. Starting Feb. 15, 2022, at-home COVID-19 tests you purchased for yourself or your covered family members may be eligible for reimbursement. You can request your reimbursement online through your Caremark.com account - there's no need to mail anything in. There are also Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) to help you learn more about eligibility, the reimbursement process, and what you can expect. Residential households in the U.S. are eligible for two orders of four free at-home tests through USPS.com. 4. Am I still required to wear a mask if I have tested positive for COVID or quarantined because of exposure? Where are the other areas where I will be required to wear a mask on campus? Although face coverings are optional indoors for all individuals on the Baylor campus, face coverings may be required on a temporary basis in certain indoor settings. For example, masks are required to be worn: In accordance with the University's Isolation and Quarantine Procedures after an individual has tested positive for COVID-19 or is quarantined due to exposure, In private faculty and staff offices when requested, and In other areas designated by posted signage, such as the Baylor Health Center. 5. Does Baylor require vendors and service providers wear face coverings when they are on campus? As of Monday, Feb. 21, 2022, campus partners are no longer required to wear a facemask except under the following conditions: Directed to do so by their corporate office OR Masking because they have tested positive or been exposed to COVID-19. 6. Is Baylor offering face coverings, such as N95 masks? The University has N95 masks available for faculty, staff and students who would like an added level of protection. Departments and offices can request for a box of these masks by emailing the Office of Environmental Health & Safety at ehs@baylor.edu. If you are a student living on campus, N95 masks can be accessed through your residence hall front desk. If you live off campus, N95 masks are available to be picked up at the McLane Student Life Center (SLC) during operational hours. 7. What is the policy and process for faculty, staff and student employees to request an accommodation regarding facemasks? Faculty, staff and student employees: If you have a medically documented disability and are requesting a reasonable accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act, please work with Human Resources in accordance with BU-PP 415. If you have different concerns for your family or yourself that require additional considerations, please work with your department chair or HR to find a mutually agreeable solution. Vaccination 1. Does Baylor require a COVID-19 vaccination for attendance? As in the fall, Baylor will not require a COVID vaccination for attendance this spring. The University encourages vaccination for students, faculty and staff and a booster dose, if you are eligible. More information is available on the University's vaccine website. 2. If I have already been vaccinated or had a booster dose, how do I notify the University? Baylor faculty, staff and students can use the Confidential Employee Medical Record Form at www.baylor.edu/vaccine to upload their completed vaccination card, including a booster dose if they have had one. NOTE: To successfully access this form, you must be logged in to your own Baylor-provided email account. 3. Is the campus vaccination/booster clinic open for students, faculty and staff as well as dependents? Effective May 19-20, 2022, Baylor Health Services will move its vaccination clinic from the North Village Community Center to the Health Center in the McLane Student Life Center. More info is available at www.baylor.edu/vaccine. Baylor Health Center Vaccination Clinic Schedule Thursdays and Fridays: 1 to 4:10 p.m. for adult and pediatric vaccinations and booster appointments. There is no cost for the COVID-19 vaccination. How to Make a Vaccination Appointment The Baylor Health Center vaccination clinic offers first and second doses of all three COVID-19 vaccines, as well as boosters, to employees and students, as well as spouses and dependents of employees and students. The pediatric Pfizer vaccine is available for dependent children ages 5-11 of employees and students. Vaccination appointments for students, faculty and staff: Students, faculty and staff can make appointments for themselves online for a COVID-19 or flu vaccination by logging in to the Health Portal on the Baylor Health Center website. Vaccination appointments for dependent and spouses: Appointments for COVID vaccinations for dependents and spouses cannot be made online. Faculty and staff must call the Baylor Health Center at 254-710-1010. 4. What should I do if I lost my vaccine card? If you were vaccinated on-campus, the Baylor Health Center maintains a record of your vaccination. If you were vaccinated at an off-campus site, please check with the provider that administered your vaccine for instructions on how to retrieve your records. Information on how to obtain a new vaccination card or other evidence of vaccination also can be found on the CDC website. Isolation/Quarantine Procedures 1. What should I do if I feel sick or if I might have been exposed to COVID-19? If you are a student with COVID symptoms or exposure to the virus, please log in to the Health Portal to make an appointment for testing at the Baylor Health Center in the McLane Student Life Center. Employees should contact their person healthcare provider for testing or obtain an at-home test kit available through pharmacies, such as CVS, Walgreen's or HEB. When the health center is closed or the University is closed for the holidays, Baylor students have 24/7 access to on-demand urgent care through Baylor Telehealth by AcademicLiveCare. The University's Isolation and Quarantine Procedures provide an outline of what you should do if you are exposed to or test positive for COVID-19. Baylor employees should notify their supervisor of any needed sick time or remote work time. Symptoms of COVID-19 People with COVID-19 have had a wide range of symptoms, ranging from mild symptoms to severe illness. Symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure to the virus. Anyone can have mild to severe symptoms. People with these symptoms may have COVID-19: Fever or chills Cough Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing Fatigue Muscle or body aches Headache New loss of taste or smell Sore throat Congestion or runny nose Nausea or vomiting Diarrhea This list does not include all possible symptoms. CDC will continue to update this list as we learn more about COVID-19. When to Seek Emergency Medical Attention Look for emergency warning signs** for COVID-19. If someone is showing any of these signs, seek emergency medical care immediately: Trouble breathing Persistent pain or pressure in the chest New confusion Inability to wake or stay awake Pale, gray, or blue-colored skin, lips, or nail beds, depending on skin tone **This list is not all possible symptoms. Please call your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning to you. Call 911 or call ahead to your local emergency facility: Notify the operator that you are seeking care for someone who has or may have COVID-19. 2. What are Baylor University's Isolation and Quarantine procedures? What procedures will I need to follow whether I have tested positive (Isolation) or exposed to a positive (Quarantine) and am vaccinated or unvaccinated? Baylor University has adopted updated protocols for Isolation and Quarantine in 2022. Students and employees should follow the University's Isolation and Quarantine procedures outlining what you should do if you are exposed to or test positive for COVID-19. 3. I read that every student "should develop a plan" if they test positive or have to self-isolate or quarantine. What should be in a student's plan? Students should have a plan if they become infected, as quarantine and isolation services will be severely limited. The University's isolation housing is prioritized for those on-campus residential students who live out of state or a significant distance from Waco and cannot return home to safely quarantine at home or in another safe location. Baylor contact tracers and Residence Hall staff will provide guidance and instructions to students who test positive. A student's plan should include: a location to complete the self-isolation/quarantine period, including returning home if feasible, a plan for transportation, such as using your own vehicle or transportation by a family member, but no use of public transportation, access to groceries/meal delivery, access to necessary medications, a plan to communicate with your professors, numbers of emergency contacts, and contact information for their preferred healthcare provider. Please note that if students have a meal plan, the plan would still be in effect, and the university has a process in place for students in isolation and quarantine to receive meals. However, a limited selection of meals might be offered. 4. I am an on-campus student who tested positive and am now completing the isolation period (1) in university isolation housing or (2) in my room. I have a meal plan so how will I receive my meals? If you are a student in university isolation housing, you will given instructions and have meals delivered to you by the Bear Aid team. Students in quarantine or isolating in place do not have delivered meals. They are to remain in their rooms at all times. If they are around roommates or have to leave for the restroom or dining hall, they must remain masked, preferably with an N95. For meals, they should go to the closest dining hall, masked preferably with an N95, to get a meal to-go only and then return immediately to their room. If they have not received an N95, they should call the front desk of their building or their CL if they need an N95. 5. What should an employee do if they have a positive test? Students and employees who test positive or have been exposed to a positive test should continue to reference the Spring protocols for direction on quarantine/isolation. Employees should notify their supervisor of any needed sick time or remote work time. 6. Can I test out and leave isolation early if I receive a negative test after a positive test? Our current COVID policy on retesting is that we cannot accept a negative retest (antigen or PCR) to overturn a recent positive test. Anyone who tests positive is required to isolate for the 5 days following their positive test regardless of any instance of testing negative after that initial positive test. 7. Does the University clean or disinfect residence hall rooms if a student tests positive? What we know now about curtailing the spread of the virus is that it is less important to sanitize surfaces and more important to maintain regular ventilation and air flow. The University does not provide room cleaning, however, if a student does not have regular cleaning supplies in their room, they should contact their hall front desk for available supplies. The University's Custodial Services team has continued its focus on implementing improved ventilation practices, including increasing building fresh air, maximizing filtration and disinfecting coil systems. The University has a limited number of air purifiers that are available upon request for temporary use in a residence hall room or department. Baylor Custodial Services also conducts cleaning and disinfection in accordance with current CDC recommendations, including increased disinfection in multiple locations with an emphasis on restrooms, common spaces and common high-touch contact points across campus. Any disinfectant used on campus is approved as effective against the coronavirus by the EPA. 8. Does the University conduct contact tracing? Effective May 16, 2022, Baylor will no longer provide contact tracing. All contact tracing will be conducted by the Waco/McLennan County Public Health District. Students and employees who test positive or have been exposed to a positive test should continue to reference the Spring protocols for direction on quarantine/isolation. Employees should notify their supervisor of any needed sick time or remote work time. 9. The Baylor Health Center is open for student healthcare. Does Baylor also offer phone or telehealth options for students? Please check the Baylor Health Center for updates to their summer hours. The Baylor Health Center in the McLane Student Life Center provides health care for students Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Saturday from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. When the Baylor Health Center is closed, Baylor students have 24/7 access to a nurse line after hours, on weekends and holidays at 254-710-1010. In addition, telehealth appointments for 24/7 on-demand urgent care for students are available through the Baylor Telehealth by AcademicLiveCare Care Hub. More information about telehealth appointment is available on the Health Services website. 10. Is Baylor receiving requests from students for an online class schedule? What about classes if a student tests positive for COVID-19 and has to isolate or is a close contact and instructed to quarantine? Baylor University began the spring 2022 semester on Jan. 18 with in-person instruction. The University is not receiving or granting requests from students to take their courses online. Due to our high vaccination rates (over 82%), availability of testing and following public health protocols, we believe the safest place for our faculty, staff and students from the latest variant is on the Baylor campus. The University has continued with COVID-19 precautionary measures from the fall as we closely follow the spike and projected decline of this latest variant. Baylor faculty are being asked to work with students who test positive for COVID or who must quarantine due to contact tracing, but, unless a student is officially registered with the Office of Access and Learning Accommodation (OALA) and has an accommodation that merits online coursework, students are expected to be in Waco for in-person courses. Students who have tested positive for COVID-19 and are isolating or are identified as a close contact and instructed to quarantine should follow their plan and communicate directly with their professors directly. General Information About COVID-19 1. How can we keep up with the latest University updates regarding COVID-19? You can find all communications regarding COVID-19 from Baylor University posted on the University Updates page. 2. How can we keep up with the current COVID-19 situation at Baylor, in Waco, in Texas and in the U.S. and across the globe? Baylor University, the Waco/McLennan County Public Health District and the Texas Department of State Health Services also provide the latest information on the current COVID-19 situation on their websites and on their public dashboards: Texas Department of State Health Services Waco-McLennan County Public Health District Baylor Dashboard The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) provides the latest information on COVID-19 on the CDC website. Interim COVID-19 Policies 1. What are the interim policies Baylor has enacted in response to COVID-19? Baylor's interim policies in response to COVID-19 are available on the University Compliance and Risk Services website. Operations & Facilities 1. What is the University doing about cleaning, disinfection and air flow? Baylor Custodial Services conducts cleaning and disinfection in accordance with current CDC recommendations. This includes increased disinfection in multiple locations with an emphasis on restrooms, common spaces and common high-touch contact points across campus. Any disinfectant used on campus is approved as effective against the coronavirus by the EPA. Additionally, Baylor Custodial Services continues to implement improved ventilation practices, including increasing building fresh air, maximizing filtration and disinfecting coil systems. Air purifiers are being provided to departments upon request. We remind everyone to practice good personal hygiene to lower the risk of becoming ill. 2. Are hand sanitizer and face coverings provided for students, faculty and staff? Touchless hand sanitizing dispensers are set up across campus. If you need a face covering, disposable face covers are available at the McLane Student Life Center. If departments have questions about additional PPE, cleaning supplies or other materials, they should contact Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) at 254-710-2900 or ehs@baylor.edu. Student Health, Pastoral Care and Counseling Services 1. What resources are available for students if they need health care, pastoral care, academic assistance, resources or counseling? If you are a student with COVID symptoms or exposure to the virus, please log in to the Health Portal to make an appointment for testing at the Baylor Health Center in the McLane Student Life Center. Employees should contact their healthcare provider. For students who need regular health care, appointments with the Baylor Health Center also can be made by calling 254-710-1010 or online through the Health Portal log-in on the health services website. This fall, the Health Center is open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday and on Saturday. Check the website for updated hours. When the health center is closed or the University is closed for the holidays, Baylor students have 24/7 access to on-demand urgent care through Baylor Telehealth by AcademicLiveCare. The Office of Baylor Spiritual Life and University Chaplain Dr. Burt Burleson offer pastoral care and other spiritual resources for students and the Baylor community by phone at 254-710-3517, by email and on their website at www.baylor.edu/spirituallife. For pastoral care, reach out to Tyler Conway, senior coordinator for care and Campus Ministries, at tyler_conway@baylor.edu. The Baylor Counseling Center can be reached 24/7 at 254-710-2467. Students also may email Counseling_Center@baylor.edu. You can read more about how the Counseling Center is serving students during the pandemic on the Counseling Center website. The Paul L. Foster Success Center provides assistance with advisement, academic support, accommodations and access to resources for student success, including The Store. Baylor Care Team Services is a team of case managers who connect students to resources both on and off campus and offer holistic care through creating trusting relationships. 2. Does Baylor require a flu shot for students? No. However, getting the flu vaccine is strongly encouraged by Baylor. Getting a flu vaccine is more important than ever, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, not only to reduce a person's risk from flu but also to help conserve potentially scarce healthcare resources. Baylor Health Services offers flu shots at its vaccination clinic in the North Village Community Center. Travel 1. Does Baylor have any restrictions on international or domestic university travel? Effective March 1, 2022, international travel will no longer be restricted, subject to the usual process of departmental/college approval. There will also be no vaccine mandate issued by Baylor University. All travelers will need to follow the entry requirements of host countries (which supersedes Baylor policy and may mandate vaccines, vaccine cards, and boosters). Each trip will be reviewed individually in light of travel restrictions and entry requirements. Registration forms must be submitted to the Center for Global Engagement at least 14 days in advance to allow sufficient time for review and consultation with the travelers by CGE and the Office of Global Safety and Security. International Group Travel (study abroad, international missions, field trips, etc.) will no longer have a vaccine mandate, but all travelers must abide by the entry rules and local ordinances of the host country without exception. Information Sources About COVID-19 Outside of Waco 1. I am a student with Baylor's program in New York. Where should I go for the best pandemic-related information? Since you reside in New York, we encourage you to visit the New York State Health Department website for the latest COVID-19 related information. From there, you can sign up for email notifications, or contact your local health department office by viewing the online directory. Baylor continues to provide more general information about Waco and Baylor at www.baylor.edu/coronavirus. 2. I am a student with a Baylor program in the Dallas-Ft. Worth area. Where should I go for the best pandemic-related information? Residents of Dallas County can visit the Dallas County Health and Human Services' website for the latest COVID-19 related information and resources. Those in Tarrant County (Ft. Worth and surrounding areas) can visit Tarrant County Public Health for coronavirus information. Additional information is available on Tarrant County Public Health's Facebook page. Baylor continues to provide more general information about Waco and Baylor at www.baylor.edu/coronavirus. 3. I am a student with a Baylor program in Austin. Where should I go for the best pandemic-related information? Since you reside in the Austin area, we encourage you to visit Austin Public Health for information on COVID-19. The website includes a Virtual Assistant to use for your coronavirus-related questions. Baylor continues to provide more general information about Waco and Baylor at www.baylor.edu/coronavirus. 4. I am a student with a Baylor program located in Houston. Where should I go for the best pandemic-related information? If you live in Houston and the incorporated areas of the city extending outside Harris County, we encourage you to visit the Houston Health Department for COVID-19 information. If you live in Harris County, visit Harris County Public Health. Baylor continues to provide more general information about Waco and Baylor at www.baylor.edu/coronavirus. 5. I am a student with a Baylor program in Washington, D.C. Where should I go for the best pandemic-related information? Since you reside in the Washington, D.C. area, we encourage you to visit the District of Columbia Department of Health for information on COVID-19. Baylor continues to provide more general information about Waco and Baylor at www.baylor.edu/coronavirus. 6. I am a student with a Baylor program in San Antonio. Where should I go for the best pandemic-related information? Since you reside in the San Antonio area, we encourage you to visit the San Antonio Metropolitan Health District for information on COVID-19. Baylor continues to provide more general information about Waco and Baylor at www.baylor.edu/coronavirus. Contacts 1. Who can I contact with questions? Baylor University's primary COVID-19 liaison is: George Nunez, Director of Emergency Management Email: coronavirus@baylor.edu Access any of the following resources for additional information or answers to commonly asked questions: FAQs: www.baylor.edu/coronavirus/FAQS Interim COVID-19 Policies: https://www.baylor.edu/risk/index.php?id=970933 If you are a member of the media, please contact Baylor Media & Public Relations at 254-710-1961 or mediacomm@baylor.edu. 2. I am an international student. Who do I contact with questions? International students can contact Baylor International Student and Scholar Services in the Center for Global Engagement at 254-710-1461 or by email at ISSS_Support@baylor.edu. FAQs Testing, Face Coverings Vaccination Isolation/Quarantine Procedures Student Health, Pastoral Care and Counseling Services Operations & Facilities Interim COVID-19 Policies/University Requirements General Information About COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Sources Outside of Waco Travel Contacts General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 University Updates About Baylor Dashboard COVID-19 Contact Isolation and Quarantine Procedures - 2022 Faculty & Staff Resources How to Report a COVID-19 Positive Case COVID-19 Testing Information Vaccine Information Hybrid or Remote Work Resources Learning Together External Resources FAQs Testing, Face Coverings Vaccination Isolation/Quarantine Procedures Student Health, Pastoral Care and Counseling Services Operations & Facilities Interim COVID-19 Policies/University Requirements General Information About COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Sources Outside of Waco Travel Contacts COVID-19 Testing Vaccination Information Resources Primary Resources For Students For Faculty and Staff Travel Advisories and Resources From the CDC COVID-19 Contact