Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search Fueling learning, teaching and research SMU Libraries Also in SMU Libraries SMU Fund for Libraries Endowing the deanship SMU Libraries Internship Program Business Library Special Collections Conservation Center Special Collections Leadership The library is the heart of a university. — SMU President Charles Selecman (1923–1938) The SMU Libraries live by these words, which fuel the essential mission of the University in teaching, learning, research and creative works. Our libraries provide critical services, collections and facilities that reach and engage every student, faculty, staff and global community member who seeks to learn from our past, stand on the shoulder of giants and re-imagine our future. Like the heart, we reliably and steadfastly deliver the sustenance upon which the intellectual and social life thrives at SMU in Dallas and worldwide. Make an impact The SMU Libraries have exciting opportunities for donors with a range of interests and capabilities during the SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow campaign. Our libraries possess a universal appeal for alumni and non-alumni as there are many opportunities to make a significant impact for a wide audience across all academic disciplines represented at SMU. The SMU Libraries are an ideal source for donors who want visibility and broad name recognition as, collectively, the libraries enjoy millions of virtual and physical visits to our collections and facilities every year. Give Now Create your legacy Endow the dean of SMU Libraries Endowing the deanship will provide perpetual financial support for SMU Libraries’ current and emerging strategic directions as determined by the dean of SMU Libraries. Libraries are dynamic organizations that benefit from strong leadership and the ability to reallocate resources in the ever-evolving field of information dissemination. An endowed deanship elevates the importance of libraries, enhances the profile of the dean and makes available unrestricted funds for other library priorities. Name the Business Library Naming the Business Library, the only unnamed library of the seven at SMU, is a distinctive opportunity to create a legacy that will join other esteemed family names that are synonymous with educational and research excellence. The Business Library and the co-located Kitt Investing and Trading Center, deliver timely, accurate information and expertise in a technologically rich environment that enhances the academic quality and competitiveness of the Cox School of Business and SMU. Support the Special Collections Conservation Center Adjacent to the Digital Research Studio, the Special Collections Conservation Center will ensure the preservation and conservation of fragile, rare and unique materials. The SMU library system is one of only a few of its caliber without a dedicated libraries-wide conservation lab staffed with specialists equipped to assess, repair and stabilize our invaluable collection of books, manuscripts, ephemera and film artifacts. This gift plus endowment will fund the purchase of equipment and the renovation of a purpose-built space while ensuring future conservation needs are met. Endow special collections leadership SMU Libraries special collections encompass tangible materials documenting the lived human experience across time. The valuable and diverse cultural heritage collections are overseen by highly qualified librarians and archivists who collect, document, preserve and share the riches of our internationally recognized resources with SMU and the world. This endowed fund will provide support for essential leadership positions within the distinctive collection areas, bringing additional skill sets to assist with our goal to activate the collective cultural heritage assets of SMU for the benefit of our students and scholars. Endow the SMU Libraries Internship Program The SMU Libraries Internship Program is an inclusive training ground for future librarians that adds immeasurable value to the SMU community. Each year we train and financially support five interns from leading library and information schools. While at SMU, the interns are an integral part of the growth and progress of SMU Libraries. Endowing this program not only secures SMU Libraries as an institution distinguished by its ability to train new librarians; it also ensures the SMU community will continue to benefit from the talent, dedication and expertise of the best and brightest in our profession. The SMU Ignited campaign is a seminal opportunity for SMU Libraries to build upon the strong foundation laid by pioneering librarians and library supporters who recognize that what we do today influences the success of many, in ways known and unknown. — Holly E. Jeffcoat, Dean of SMU Libraries As the premier private university in North Texas, SMU exists to shape future leaders who transform communities and organizations through ingenuity and thoughtful problem-solving. Building on our history of excellence, we have launched SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow – our multiyear, $1.5 billion campaign to attract and support outstanding students and faculty, to explore new fields and cutting-edge technologies, and to positively impact Dallas and the world beyond. We invite you to join us and empower the bold, the curious and the creative to better their professions and their communities. Blaze a new path Laurie Ann Ross Director of Development General University laross@smu.edu or 214-768-7725 Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search