Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Loan Office Before You Borrow Loan Process - Application, Requirements, Disbursement Loan Office Loan Process - Application, Requirements, Disbursement Loan Process Apply for financial aid. Complete the FAFSA and any other required documentation for financial aid. The Office of Financial Aid or the Alpert Medical School Office of Financial Aid will create your financial aid offer. Undergraduate students wishing to borrow loans should complete the loan request form in Banner Self Service by following the link to ‘Request Loans or Accept Loan Offers’ in the ‘Undergraduate Students’ options menu. (Learn more about the Brown Promise) Review and Accept/Decline financial aid offers. Students must accept or decline loans online through Banner Self Service beginning May 2nd each academic year. Go to the Financial Aid tab, select Accept Award Offers, and complete the information. Be sure to click “Submit Decision” before exiting. Students can choose to accept the full amount offered, a partial amount based on what is needed, or decline any loan. Review Unsatisfied Requirements in Banner Web Self Service. Immediately after you accept loans, scroll down to view any Unsatisfied Requirements and related instructions. Complete all loan requirements as directed (detailed emails will be sent from the Loan Office) Direct Loan requirements can be completed online immediately through studentloans.gov but will not be updated in Banner until we import the information from the Department of Education. Institutional Loan materials will be created once per week on Thursday evenings. The Loan Office will send you a detailed email once the materials are ready to be completed online. Borrowers must wait to receive Loan Office email and then complete requirements at https://www.ecsi.net/prome7/. Disbursement - All loan requirements must be completed and the scheduled disbursement date must pass before loan funds will be disbursed (paid) to the student account. Loan funds are typically scheduled to disburse 10 days before the semester begins. If the loan disbursement results in a credit balance on the student account, students may request an electronic student account refund through the Bursar's Office. The Bursar Office will begin processing refunds on the first day of classes. Plan Ahead Keep track of borrowing each year - Visit the "Manage Loans" section of StudentAid.gov to view your federal student aid history and get federal servicer's contact information. Borrowers can also get details of institutional loans on Banner Self Service. Complete Exit Counseling before leaving school - Exit Counseling is a mandatory requirement whether you are taking a leave of absence, withdrawing, graduating, or enrolling less than half-time. Grace Period- Loans enter a grace period when you leave school. No payments are required, but it's a great time to pay down your debt and reduce your overall cost of repayment. It's also a good time to make decisions about loan repayment, get to know your servicers, and set up online account access. Repayment - You want to be prepared before your loans enter repayment. Home About Before You Borrow Borrow Wisely - Financial Considerations Loan Process - Application, Requirements, Disbursement PLUS Loan Application Process Federal Loans Institutional Loans Private Loans TEACH Grant Leaving Brown & Exit Counseling Repay your Loans 1098-E Student Loan Interest - Tax Information Employee Programs News Code of Conduct Print this Page Share this Page Loan Office Brown University Box 1950 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3296 Fax 401-863-7518 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Bursar's Office Cashier's Office Financial Services Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Medical