Skip to main content GSD Logo Harvard University Graduate School of Design Reopening Menu Search Academics Department of Architecture Department of Landscape Architecture Department of Urban Planning and Design Design Studies Design Engineering Doctoral Programs Undergraduate Architecture Studies Loeb Fellowship Executive Education Early Design Education Research Courses More ▼ Apply GSD Now Give People Faculty Staff Students Alumni About Administrative Leadership Council Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Alumni and Friends Website Resources Most Popular: Admissions COVID-19 Financial Aid Frances Loeb Library Student Affairs Offices & Services All Resources → For: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Explore News Events Exhibitions Publications Podcasts Projects Topics Site Index Jump to: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A AIA Henry Adams Certificate AIA Henry Adams Medal AICP Outstanding Student Award Academic Affairs Academic Appointments and Policies Academic Calendars & Schedules Academic Conduct Policy Academic Integrity Academic Services & Advising Accellion Secure File Transfer Accessibility Services Accessibility Services at Public Programs Access to Career Services During Leave of Absence Accreditation Administrative Leadership Council Admissions Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions FAQ AfricaGSD After MDes Workshops After MDes Workshops Aga Khan Program at the GSD Alpha Rho Chi Medal Alumni Connections Alumni Council Career Panels American Society of Landscape Architects Awards Application Checklist Apply Apply for Financial Aid Apply for a Job with Computer Resources Applying for Restricted Scholarships Araldo A. Cossutta Annual Prize for Design Excellence Architecture Architecture Core Prep Areas of Concentration Art, Design, and the Public Domain Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2018 Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2019 Attendance Augmented & Virtual Reality (AR/VR) Award Details Award for Excellence in Project-Based Urban Planning Award for Excellence in Urban Design Award for Outstanding Leadership in Urban Planning and Urban Design B Benefits & Perks Biking Borrowing Print Materials Building Services Business Cards for Students C COVID-19 Information for Staff COVID-19 Testing and Tracing CREATE for Alumni CREATE for Employers CREATE for Students Canvas Capital Improvements and Projects Career Paths by Program Career Resources for Alumni Career Services: Alumni Career Services: Employers Career Services: FAQs Career Services: Faculty Career Services: Students Career Services Offerings Career Services Video Library Careers Casual Conversations With GSD Alumni Change of Address Charles Abrams Scholarship Charles Eliot Traveling Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Chauhaus Classroom Equipment Classroom Technology Clifford Wong Prize in Housing Design Commencement 2022 Commencement Information Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Communications Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Computer Accounts and Passwords Computer Labs Computer Recommendations Computer Requirements Computer Resources Group Concurrent and Joint Degrees Connecting to the File Server Connect with the GSD Contact Contact Admissions Contact Financial Aid Contact the GSD Cost Recovery Policy Course Catalog Course Descriptions Course Info Sessions and Videos Critical Conservation Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2018 Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2019 Cross-Registration Policies & Procedures Current MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements Current MUP Degree Requirements Curriculum Custodial Services D DDes & PhD Financial Aid DDes/PhD Open House Schedule DDes Guidelines for the Dissertation DDes Guidelines for the General Exam DDes Guidelines for the Prospectus DIB Annual Report DIB Programs Daniel L. Schodek Award for Technology and Sustainability Daniel Urban Kiley Teaching Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Dean’s Office Degree Checks Degree Programs Degree Requirements Policies Degree Verifications Design Computing at the GSD Design Labs Design Now: A Quarterly Podcast from Harvard’s Graduate School of Design Design Studies Thesis Prize Desktop 3D Printing Regulations Development and Alumni Relations Digital Delivery and Electronic Resources Digital Design Prize Digital Governance Policy Dimitris Pikionis Award Directions Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging at Career Services Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Offerings Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Resources Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Doctoral Grader (Union Position) Doctoral Programs Doctor of Design Program (DDes) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Document Request Form Druker Traveling Fellowship E ETH Zurich Exchange Program Early Design Education Ecologies Eligibility Email Accounts Emergencies Employer Presentations Employers & Career Paths for Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for Landscape Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for MDE Students Employers & Career Paths for MDes and DDes Students Employers & Career Paths for Urban Planning and Design Students Endowed Fellowships & Financial Aid Funds Energy and Environment Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2017 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2018 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2019 Enrollment Certifications Enrollment Policies Environmental Health and Safety at the GSD Equipment for Classroom Instruction Equitable Accountability Ergonomics Event Audiovisual Support Event Participation for Alumni Event Planning for Faculty and Staff Event Planning for Students Events Events Archive Executive Education Exemptions, Waivers, and Substitutions for MUPs Exhibitions F FAQ FERPA Fabrication Laboratory Faculty Faculty: Collaborate With Career Services Faculty Affairs Office Faculty Directory Faculty Handbooks, Administrative Policies, and Guidelines for Instruction Faculty Research Federal Work-Study Information Fellowships, Funding Sources, and Internships for Students Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Ferdinand Colloredo-Mansfeld Prize for Superior Achievement in Real Estate Studies Final Review Schedule (Spring 2021 – M1, Full-term, M2) Finance Office Financial Aid Financial Aid Application Process for Current Students Financial Aid Application for Prospective Students Financial Aid FAQ Financial Aid Handbook Financial Aid and Satisfactory Progress Financial Matters First Meetings for Option Studios Flexwork at the GSD Frances Loeb Library Fulbright U.S. Student Program G GLACIER GSD-Courances Residency Program GSD Alumni Council Career Panels GSD Community Calendar GSD Consumer Information GSD Diversity Cabinet GSD Payroll Coordinators GSD Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund GSD Radio GSD Student Payroll GSD Web Style Gain Experience General Ledger Gifts & Grants Grading Grant Aid H Harvard-MIT Course Logistics Harvard GSD Job & Internship Fair 2022 Harvard Graduate School of Design Employer Recruiting Policies Harvard Graduate School of Design Fact Book Harvard ID Card Harvard International Office Harvard Shuttle and Van Service Harvard Travel Registry Health Services Heating/Cooling Schedule Help Desk Hiring Students: Information for Faculty History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2018 History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2019 History and Philosophy of Design and Media Home How To Plot How to Post an Event to GSD Now How to Write a Resume That Stands Out Human Resources Human Resources Forms & Policies Hybrid Classroom I IT Policies Income Processing Policy and Procedures Information for Current DDes Students Information for Current PhD Students Installing AEScript AfterEffects Plugin Installing Adobe’s Creative Cloud Software Installing ArcGis Installing AutoDesk Installing Cargo Installing Cinema 4D Installing ClimateStudio Installing DesignBuilder Installing Diva for Rhino Installing Flovent Installing GRANTA EduPack Installing Houdini Installing KeyShot Installing MasterCam Installing MathCAD Installing Miro Installing Modelo Installing Multiframe and MicroStation Installing Printers For Windows Installing Printers for Mac Installing Reality Capture Installing Render Services Installing Rhino Installing RhinoTerrain Installing RobotStudio Installing SketchUp Installing SolidWorks Installing VRay for 3DS Max Installing VRay for Rhino Installing Windows on a Mac Using Parallels International Financial Aid International Student Resources Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Alien Staff Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Bunker Hill Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Dis-Armor Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – El Centro Cultural Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Hiroshima Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Homeless Vehicle Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Loro Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Personal Instrument Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Poliscar Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Abraham Lincoln Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Admiral Farragut Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Central Library Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The City Hall Tower Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Kunstmuseum Basel Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The New Mechelenians Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Real Estate Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Vehicle Irving Innovation Fellowship J J-Term Jacob Weidenman Prize James Templeton Kelley Prize Job Search Resources: Planning, Urban Design, Real Estate Julia Amory Appleton Traveling Fellowship in Architecture K KPF Traveling Fellowship Kevin V. Kieran Prize Key Requests L Landscape Architecture Landscape Architecture Faculty Office Hours Landscape Architecture Thesis Prize Leave of Absence Leaves/Withdrawals and Tuition Charges Library Access & Borrowing Library Liaisons Library Resources & Services Library Resources for Alumni and Visitors Library Staff Life at the GSD Limited-Enrollment Lottery LinkedIn Learning @ Harvard Live Course Presentations Living Guidebook to Virtual Teaching and Learning Living in Cambridge Loan Deferments Loeb Fellowship M MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements MAUD/MLAUD Student Work MArch Course Waiver and Substitution Policy and Procedures MArch Distributional Electives MArch Financial Aid MArch I AP Required Courses MArch II Required Courses MArch I Required Courses MArch Open House Schedule MArch Split Option MArch Thesis Program MDE Open House Schedule MDes Financial Aid MDes Open House Schedule MDes Research and Development Award MDes Technology MLA Degree Requirements MLA Financial Aid MLA Open House Schedule MLA Thesis Guidelines MLA Waivers and Substitutions MUP & MAUD Financial Aid MUP Degree Requirements MUP Outreach Mail Center Mail Policy Master in Architecture I Master in Architecture II Master in Design Engineering Master in Design Studies (MDes) Master in Design Studies (MDes) Pre-Fall 2021 Master in Landscape Architecture I Master in Landscape Architecture I AP Master in Landscape Architecture II Master in Real Estate Master in Urban Planning Master in Urban Planning and Juris Doctor Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Administration Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Health Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Policy Meditation Room Mediums Microsoft Teams Mindfulness, Stress Reduction, & Time Management N NAAB Accreditation Information and Resources Narratives News News Archive Newsletter Nondiscrimination Policy Norman T. Newton Prize O Obtaining a MA State ID Card Office Hour Signup Tools Office Updates Office for Urbanization Office of Career Services Office of Student Affairs Online Registration (my.Harvard) Online Teaching Resources Open Access Policy Open Faculty Positions Open House Open Non-Faculty Academic Positions Opportunities to Recruit GSD Students Option Studio Lottery Spring 2022 Option Studio Presentations Organizational Charts Orientation and Registration for Incoming Students Other Courses of Interest Other J-Term Opportunities Outside Scholarships Outstanding Leadership in Real Estate Award P Page Lists Shortcodes Parking Participate in the Summer Community Service Fellowship Program Paul M. Heffernan International Travel Award Paying for Your Program Payroll Penny White Project Fund Performance Management Performance Management Permanent Records Personnel Manuals Person of Interest (POI) Peter Rice Internship Program at Renzo Piano Building Workshop Peter Rice Prize Peter Walker and Partners Fellowship for Landscape Architecture PhD Student Bios Photo Lab Photography Guidelines Planning Newsletter Plimpton-Poorvu Design Prize Podcasts Policy on Personal Conduct Pollman Fellowship in Real Estate and Urban Development Pre-orientation for New Students Printing Costs Printing Guide Printing Tips and Known Issues Prize for Academic Excellence in Urban Planning and Urban Design Program History Program Pedagogy Projects Protected: Poster Presentations for CSFP Fellows Public Programs Publications Publics Purchases & Expenses R REA Fund Recipients Rafael Moneo Rome Travel Award Real Estate and the Built Environment Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2017 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2018 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2019 Recent DDes Graduates Recent PhD graduates Recommended Backgrounds for Option Studios Recycling, Freecycling and Composting Refunds Registrar Registration Registration Procedures Replacement Diplomas Request Update to Profile Photo Requesting a GSD Subsite Requirements 2017-18 Requirements 2018-19 Research Research Administration Research Administration Resources Research Assistant (Union Position) Research Centers & Programs Research Fellow (Union Position) Research Programs & Initiatives Research Reports & Publications Resource Center Resources for New Graduates Resources for Partners and Families Respectful and Transparent Engagement Return to Campus & Technology Richard Rogers Fellowship Risk and Resilience Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2018 Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2019 Robert A. M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) Room Reservations S Safety, Health, and Wellbeing Sample Job Posting #1 Sample Job Posting #2 Scanners Scholarships for International Students Scholarships for US Citizens and Eligible Non-citizens Seating Charts and Assigned Seating Security Shift Schedule Social Media Social Media Special Collections Special Interest Links for Architecture Students Spiritual Life Spring 2021 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2021 Thesis Review Schedule Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Final Review Schedule Staff Awards & Recognition Staff Directory Staff Newsletter Staff Printing Stationery and Branding Student & Alumni Events Student Academic Affairs Committee Student Directory Student Employment Student Forum Student Forum Open ZOOM Room Student Group Directory Student Group Guide Student Policies Student Records and Transcript Policies Student Travel Information and Costs for Option Studios Students on Leave of Absence Studio Abroad Studio Culture Policy Studio Electricity Summer Peer-Learning Sessions Sustainability at the GSD T Takenaka Summer Internship Talking Practice Tax Resources Teaching Assistant & Research Assistant: Faculty Resources Teaching Assistant (Union Position) Teaching Fellow (Union Position) Technical and Administrative Positions (Non-union Positions) Technology Guide Technology – Required Courses 2018 Technology – Required Courses 2019 Telephones Term Bill The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Title IX Tokyo Summer Workshop Topics Transcripts Transportation Travel Safety and Guidelines Traveling Fellowships Tuition Tuition and Financial Aid U UPD Faculty Office Hours UPD Thesis Guidelines Undergraduate Architecture Studies University Policies & Procedures Updating Staff Profile Photos Urban Design Faculty Profiles Urban Planning and Design Urban Planning and Design Open House Schedule Urban Planning and Design Thesis Prize Urban Planning and Public Policy Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2018 Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2019 Utilizing LinkedIn V VPN Service Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design Veteran and Military Benefits Virtual & On-Campus Events W Web: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Web Editing: Media Web Profile Photos Wellness Resources Wheelwright Prize Who We Are Work Opportunities for Students Work Order Request Form Workshops and Personal Development 2 2020 Oct Iframe test 2021-2022 Academic Year Planning 2022 Application FAQs 2022 J-Term Courses Submit Search Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Student Bios In addition to their studies, doctoral candidates are involved in many aspects of the school. Among other activities, they hold Research or Teaching Fellowships and organize speaker series, conferences, and journals. Students generally take courses their first two years, and are engaged in research and teaching for at least two more years. After their fourth year, students may or may not remain in residency; many travel to pursue their research, either in the US or abroad. Click here for recent PhD graduates. Salma Abouelhossein is in her 5th year of the Ph.D. program in urban studies and planning. Her research interests are in urbanization and crisis, the materialities and ecologies of the finance economy, depeasantization and labor. Her dissertation is a historical geographical project that studies the entangled ways in which agro-ecological change in the Nile Valley of Egypt and Sudan was constitutive of emergent urbanization processes in the Middle East during the second half of the twentieth century. Focusing on two sugarcane production regions in Egypt and Sudan, her dissertation studies the advent of regional ‘Gulf-led’ urbanization since the mid-1970s in relation to the consecutive global ‘food regimes’. Salma’s research is supported by the Agha Khan program at Harvard University, the International Journal of Urban and Regional Research (IJURR), and Harvard University’s Center for African Research. She holds a Master of Science degree in urban development and planning from the Bartlett, University College London and a Bachelor of Architecture from the American University in Cairo. Before starting her Ph.D. at Harvard university, she worked as an urban planner in Cairo in collaboration with several NGOs, international development organizations, governmental agencies and local municipalities. salmaabouelhossein@g.harvard.edu Katarzyna (Kate) Balug is a PhD Candidate at the Harvard Graduate School of Design. Her research explores feedback loops between techno-political change and subjectivity as mediated by artistic practice. Her dissertation studies late 1960s inflatable forms in art and architecture, and the post-lunar imaginaries that they articulated in response to a confluence of scientific and social transformations. The project takes inspiration from recent studies of air in philosophy and literature, and considers the invention of the manned balloon in the late 18th century as a precedent for air architecture. Kate’s academic work is complemented by curatorial and artistic practice. In 2017, she co-curated The New Inflatable Moment for Boston’s BSA Space, which captured the utopian sensibilities of inflatables from the 18th to the 21st centuries. Her long-term art project, Department of Play, intervenes in public space through momentary fictions. Past support includes a 2015 ArtPlace America grant. Kate holds a MUP from the Harvard GSD, with past research supported by the Sinclair Kennedy Fellowship. She received a dual BA in studio art and French from the University of Southern California. Her essays have been published in Geoforum, Critical Sociology (co-authored), react/review (UCSB’s art and architecture history journal), and New Geographies: Extraterrestrial. She has a book chapter forthcoming in NASA in the American South (University of Florida Press). Kate has taught seminars and lecture courses in the Landscape Architecture department at the GSD, and is currently an MDes Research Tutor. kbalug@gsd.harvard.edu deptofplay.com Hugo Betting is an architect and a first-year PhD student. He has recently been focusing on the margins of modern architecture and its common ground with sciences, technology, and mass culture. On a broader scope, he is interested in the philosophical discourses of modernity at large, its repressed aspects, and the inner contradictions that are structuring it. Prior to arriving at Harvard, Hugo completed a Licence’s and a Master’s Degree from Paris La Villette School of Architecture. His master’s thesis in history and theory of Architecture examined the process of building utopia, through the brief existence of the Maison de la Culture’s Mobile Theater by André Wogenscky, as a deceiving embodiment of a silent, long desired and soon forgotten modern ideal. After his graduation, Hugo also worked for various architecture studios in Paris as a project architect, including Cathrin Trebeljahr and DATA Architectes. In 2021, he has been the recipient of the Arthur Sachs Fellowship. hbetting@g.harvard.edu Aleksandr Bierig is a PhD candidate studying eighteenth- and nineteenth-century urban and architectural history, with a focus on interactions between the built environment, the natural environment, and political economy in Britain. In his dissertation, “The Ashes of the City: Energy, Economy, and the London Coal Exchange,” he examines connections between coal, architecture, and urbanization in eighteenth and nineteenth-century London through a series of sites where the city’s fuel was bought, sold, monitored, taxed, collected, stored, and burned. These sites reveal the consequences of fossil fuel use at different scales, from changes to household heating, to the expanding bureaucratic and physical infrastructures of the fuel trade, to buildings like the London Coal Exchange, where the importance of coal was translated into monumental form. Other recent work has included investigations into the late eighteenth-century English cottage, the early nineteenth-century plantation in the American south, and changing concepts of building ventilation between 1650 and 1850. Aleksandr is a doctoral fellow with the Harvard Mellon Urban Initiative and the Center for History and Economics. Dissertation research has been supported by the Canadian Centre for Architecture, the Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art, the Harvard Graduate School of Design, the Minda de Gunzburg Center for European Studies, and the Mahindra Humanities Center at Harvard. Prior to the GSD, he completed his MArch from Princeton University and his BA in Architecture from Yale University. He has worked for architectural firms in the United States and Europe. His writing has appeared in Architectural Histories, Perspecta, Pidgin, Log, Clog, The Architectural Review, Architectural Record, and elsewhere. abierig@g.harvard.edu Will Conroy is a third year PhD student in urban planning. He is broadly interested in the geopolitical economy of urbanization, the history of race and capitalism, capitalist political ecologies, and sociospatial theory. His current research focuses on the history of urbanization in the imperial United States after 1870. His contention is that this history can help us to better understand capitalism itself: its geographical and cyclical movements; its dependence on enduring forms of socio-ecological expropriation, expulsion, and enclosure; its implication in the making and remaking of state space; and its relation to social struggle and contestation. Prior to arriving at Harvard, William completed an MPhil (with Distinction) at the University of Oxford’s School of Geography and the Environment, and a BA (Summa Cum Laude) at Northwestern University, where he focused on political economy, environmental policy, and the history of the Americas. William has also worked with a range of non-profit organizations including RECOFTC (The Center for People and Forests) as a Princeton in Asia Fellow, the Foundation for Ecological Security, and the Environmental Law Institute. William’s writing has appeared or is forthcoming in Planning Theory, Capitalism Nature Socialism, ACME, Antipode Online, and New Geographies, among other outlets. williamconroy@g.harvard.edu Yazmín M. Crespo Claudio is a fourth-year Ph.D. student in architectural history and theory at Harvard University’s Graduate School of Design. She is an Assistant Professor and former director of the department of Architecture (2014-2018) at Universidad Ana G. Méndez -Recinto Gurabo, where she teaches architecture studios, visual thinking and communication, and history and theory courses. Yazmín has taught at NYIT, Cornell, Universidad Politécnica de Puerto Rico, Universidad de Puerto Rico, Design Discovery at Harvard GSD, and was a Visiting Professor at the Elisava Escola Universitària de Disseny i Enginyeria de Barcelona. She frequently lectures about her work and has been invited to participate in several design workshops, seminars, and peer-reviewed conferences from cities like Madrid, Santo Domingo, Arequipa, Santiago de Chile, Valparaíso, Rio de Janeiro, Guadalajara, Vancouver, New York, and Puerto Rico. She has also been an invited juror at Cornell, BAC, NYIT, IAAC, Elisava, UPR, and PCUPR, and has also collaborated in the curation of art and design exhibitions. Yazmín’s work in teaching, research, and practice has been recognized with several awards, including the Edita Technical Chamber of Greece Award for her proposal Housing and Public Space in the Historical Center of Barcelona at the XIX Congress of the UIA in Barcelona, a Skidmore, Ownings and Merrill (SOM) Urban Design Category Finalist, and as an associate designer at Perkins Eastman, the World Architecture Award 2009, and the AIA NY Merit Award for the TKTS Booth in New York. She is the co-founder of taller Creando Sin Encargos (tCSE). This all-women design collective has developed several design-build workshops titled Arquitecturas Colectivas in Puerto Rico and US communities. Her research explores Counter-narratives of architectural pedagogies: an interdisciplinary perspective. Her dissertation focuses on pedagogical experiments that played a crucial role in shaping architectural discourse and practice in the second half of the 20th century, particularly in Latin America and the Caribbean. Yazmín holds the Master in Design Studies (MDes) in History and Theory of Architecture from Harvard University’s Graduate School of Design, the Master of Architecture (MArch), and the Bachelor of Architecture (BArch) from Cornell University’s College of Architecture, Art and Planning, and the Bachelor’s in Environmental Design (BED) from the Universidad de Puerto Rico’s School of Architecture. y_crespo@g.harvard.edu Samira Daneshvar is a third-year PhD student whose research is situated at the intersection of architecture and medical sciences. She is interested in the historical relationship of the human body to both its interior and exterior environments, particularly during the late-nineteenth and early-twentieth centuries. Her interest lies in the places wherein the knowledge about the body is produced and reproduced. She studies: the apparatuses of medical representation and their role in mediating, representing, and projecting the spaces within and between bodies; the ways in which the arithmetic measures of modernity establish quantitative relations among different (and discordant) modes of representation; and the process through which averages are produced across archival material. Samira holds a Master of Architecture from University of Toronto and Master of Science from University of Michigan. She joined the discipline of art and architecture after five years of medical studies in Iran. Prior to GSD, Samira has taught at University of Miami and practiced in Toronto. Her writings have appeared in Thresholds Journal, Inflection Journal, Centre 22, and other venues. She has exhibited at: Keller Gallery (MIT), Fashion Art Toronto (Daniel’s Spectrum), Goldsmith Hall (University of Texas at Austin), and Azrieli School of Architecture and Urbanism at Carleton University. sdaneshvar@fas.harvard.edu Taylor Davey is a fifth-year PhD candidate working at the intersection of transnational governance, environmental expertise, and urban political ecology. Her work focuses on the rise of local greenhouse emissions inventorying and the development of municipal sustainability indicators since the 1990s. Interested in the influence of accounting and financial risk techniques on local environmental governance, the dissertation takes the Canadian cities of Toronto and Edmonton as historical case studies to investigate the relationship between expert-driven discourses and the localization of global climate governance agendas. Of interest is the changing scalar politics of climate, the way new local policy objects are developed as part of this agenda, and the potential for concepts like the local or regional “climate” to become a more radical political resource. Taylor holds an MA in Urban Planning from Harvard University as well as a Bachelor of Architectural Studies and a Master of Architecture from the University of Waterloo, where she has also worked as an instructor. Taylor was the recipient of a SSHRC Masters research award and OAA Guild Medal. Her earlier research focused on the Social Urbanism program in Medellín, Colombia, and the politics of its dissemination as “best practice” model. She has also worked as an editorial intern at Log, The Architectural Review, and is an editorial assistant for the Harvard GSD publications office. Prior to her academic career, Taylor worked as an intern in architectural offices in Toronto. Taylor is currently located in Cambridge, MA. taylordavey@g.harvard.edu Romain David is an architect, historian, and suburbanist. As a second-year Ph.D. student, he focuses his research on the corporate metamorphosis of the late European avant-garde at the end of the 20th century. His research concentrates mainly on the Dutch office OMA and approaches architecture at the intersection of different methods and fields of research: microhistory, critical theory, sociology of organization and professions, and ethnography. Romain holds a Bachelor in cinema studies from Paris 3 Sorbonne Nouvelle and a Bachelor’s and a Master’s in architectural design from Paris La Villette School of Architecture. He graduated with the highest honors for his gated community project for greyhound’s lover. In addition, for his master’s thesis, “1995: OMA Born Again”, he received the Prix du Mémoire de Master en Architecture 2018 by the Fondation Rémy Butler under the auspices of the Fondation de France. In 2020 and 2021, he is the laureate of the Arthur Sachs Fellowship. His writings had been published in Plan Libre, Pli, and San Rocco. Beyond his academic work, he is also an avid explorer of the suburbia and his untapped world of warehouses, highways, and gated communities. romain_david@fas.harvard.edu Phillip Denny is a PhD candidate working on histories of architectural prefabrication, colonialism, and urbanization in the twentieth century. He is advised by Antoine Picon and Sarah M. Whiting. Phillip is a Frederick Sheldon Traveling Fellow in Germany for the 2021–22 academic year. Phillip frequently writes about architecture, art, and design. His writing has appeared in Harvard Design Magazine, Volume, Metropolis, The New York Times, and other publications. Recent projects include a genealogy of “creaturely” architecture in Inscriptions: Architecture Before Speech, edited by K. Michael Hays and Andrew Holder (Harvard University Press), and The Art of Joining: Designing the Universal Connector (Leipzig: Spector Books), a pocketbook anthology of original research on the architect Konrad Wachsmann. He is a member of the editorial board of Architect’s Newspaper and editor of New York Review of Architecture. In 2020, Phillip co-founded a83, a gallery and organization in Soho, New York, with a three-part mission to exhibit, publish, and promote experimental projects in architecture, art, and design. Phillip completed his Master of Architecture degree at Princeton University, where he graduated with the certificate in Media + Modernity, and received the School of Architecture History and Theory Prize. He received a Master’s degree from Harvard University in 2019. He also holds a professional Bachelor of Architecture degree from Carnegie Mellon University, where he was awarded the Louis F Valentour Fellowship, the Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation Prize for Architecture History, and the AIA Henry Adams Medal. He has practiced in numerous roles with architecture firms and organizations in the United States and Europe, including OMA/Rem Koolhaas, MOS Architects of New York, and C-Lab at Columbia University. In 2018, Phillip was a fellow of the Bauhaus Global Modernism Lab in Dessau, Germany. In 2019, he received a Graham Foundation grant to support his work on an English-language translation of Nicolas Schöffer’s 1969 urban manifesto La ville cybernétique. pdenny@g.harvard.edu phillipdenny.com Hayley Eaves is a second-year Ph.D. student interested in Baroque and Enlightenment architecture, stage design for opera, festival architecture and ephemera for theatrical enactments, and architectural draftsmanship. Past projects have focused on wayang golek (rod puppetry) in modern Indonesia, Philip James de Loutherbourg’s (1740-1812) use of theatre models and miniatures, and Ferdinando Galli-Bibiena’s (1657-1743) appropriation of ancient and global monuments on the late Baroque stage. Hayley has been the recipient of a Governor General’s Academic medal, a Max Stern Museum Fellowship, and a Michael Smith Foreign Study Supplement, which supported her 2018 residency at the Centro Vittore Branca where she was based out of the Institute of Theatre and Opera. Hayley holds a Master’s in Art History from McGill University. While completing her M.A., Hayley attributed close to one thousand watercolour paintings of zoological specimens from an eighteenth-century collection and was the lead curator and researcher for an exhibition aimed at illuminating the impact of the Great War on McGill students, faculty, and staff. The exhibition was featured on CTV News. Hayley has written exhibition reviews for Montréal-based artists and has recently published essays for the nascent Infrastructure and Climate Project at Harvard’s Centre for History and Economics. heaves@fas.harvard.edu Igor Ekštajn is a PhD candidate in architecture, urban, and landscape history. His dissertation studies how the understanding of nature has played a dynamic role in the planning and organization practices of the European southeast in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. He received a Master of Architecture from the University of Zagreb (2005) and worked in a number of Croatian architectural offices. He also holds a Master in Design Studies in History and Philosophy of Design from the Harvard GSD (2011), and a Master of Arts in Landscape Architecture from Harvard GSAS (2013). Igor has experience in curatorial practice, having worked for both the Peggy Guggenheim Collection in Venice and the GSD’s Exhibition Department. He served, moreover, as the Deputy Curator of the Croatian Pavilion at the 14th Venice Architecture Biennale, and as a member of the research and curatorial team for “Urban Intermedia: City, Archive, Narrative”- a travelling exhibition of the Harvard-Mellon Urban Initiative, where he was also a Research Fellow. He is a Graduate Student Affiliate of the Harvard University Center for European Studies and of the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs. Igor’s doctoral research has been supported by fellowships from the Konrad Adenauer Foundation and from the Krupp Foundation. ekstajn@fas.harvard.edu Samaa Elimam is a PhD Candidate studying the history of technology, empire, and environment in the nineteenth century. Her dissertation examines the links between engineering methods and the material making of the past in the Nile Valley, with a particular focus on the relationship between Egypt and the Sudan. Previous research has explored rival conceptions of technical knowledge, including early nineteenth century ideas of public utility, optimization, and aesthetic discourse in the design of public works. Samaa completed her Masters in Architecture with distinction from the Harvard Graduate School of Design, where her thesis in the New Geographies Lab explored modern Mediterranean environmental history, focusing on infrastructural networks in the Nile Delta. She has a Bachelor of Arts in Architecture with highest honors from the University of California, Berkeley. Before her PhD, Samaa worked as an architectural designer at offices in Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Cairo, and later, a visiting studio instructor at the American University in Cairo. Her dissertation research has been supported by fellowships from the Society for the History of Technology, the American Research Center in Egypt, the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and the Canadian Centre for Architecture. She is currently completing dissertation research abroad. selimam@g.harvard.edu Tamer Elshayal is an urbanist working at the intersection of urban theory, critical geography, environmental anthropology, and science and technology studies. His current research seeks to examine the shifting spatialities of mega-engineering in the Middle East through the study of spatial and cultural politics of large infrastructural projects. He is interested in how large engineering schemes reconfigure territories and landscapes as they take shape in discursive and material mediums and how they engender contested socio-spatial formations. Tamer is an associate member of the Spatial Ethnography Lab, a research collaborative co-founded and led by anthropologist Vyjayanthi Rao. He is also a research member of Neil Brenner’s Urban Theory Lab at Harvard’s Graduate School of Design, in which he works on the spatial and political dimensions of extractive economies and large-scale water and energy infrastructure in the restructuring of North Africa. Tamer previously worked as a research assistant in the Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure, focusing on water and energy infrastructure in the US. Furthermore, reflecting his shared interests in critical geography and environmental anthropology, he was awarded the Penny White summer grant to conduct fieldwork in Egypt, investigating the infrastructural landscapes of coastal engineering works in the Nile Delta. Tamer holds a Master in Design Studies in Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology from the Harvard Graduate School of Design (GSD), a Master of Landscape Architecture from FH Anhalt, Germany; a Post-professional Certificate in GIS and Environment from Salford University, UK; and a Bachelor of Architecture from Faculty of Fine Arts, Egypt. Tamer has previously worked as landscape architect in Germany and Egypt, and as an environmental researcher at the Center for the Documentation of Cultural and Natural Heritage, Bibliotheca Alexandrina. elshayal@gsd.harvard.edu José Carlos Fernández is a first-year PhD student whose work spans the fields of law, urbanism and history. He is broadly interested in the history of the influence of property law on the development of cities. His research explores the tension between European liberal property regimes adopted in colonial and post-colonial contexts and the everyday practices of urban communities as they go about owning and acquiring land. His “geography” of interest is the global south and particularly Latin America. Between 2020 and 2021, he held the position of Director of Urbanism of the Ministry of Housing of Peru, where he led the development and approval of the new National Policy of Housing and Urbanism 2030 and the passing into law of the Sustainable Urban Development Act of 2021. Prior to this, Jose Carlos worked as an associate and senior associate at the Lima office of Baker McKenzie law firm and as the legal advisor to the Metropolitan Institute of Planning of Lima. He has worked as professor of Property Law at the Catholic University Law School and has also taught seminars and workshops at the schools of architecture of Catholic University and the National University of Engineering in Lima, Peru. Jose Carlos holds a Master in Urban Planning from Harvard University and is also a licensed lawyer graduated from the School of Law of Catholic University of Peru. jfernandez@g.harvard.edu Brandon Finn is in his final year as an Urban Planning PhD candidate at Harvard University. He studies urbanization, extraction, labor, democracy, and race in Southern and Central Africa. He has published six peer-reviewed articles in journals including: Dialogues in Human Geography, Urban Geography, and Environment and Planning C: Politics and Space. His most recent article is titled ‘Pandemic Urbanization: How South Africa’s History of Labor and Disease Control Create its Current Disparities,’ which is currently in press at the Journal of Urban Affairs. Brandon is currently writing a paper on the history of urbanization and the informal economy in the Zambian Copperbelt. His research uses qualitative and archival methodologies and is broadly interested in Africa’s relation to the global history of urbanization and capitalism. Brandon is committed to a comparative approach to urban studies in both his research and teaching. This approach sees African and American urban history, theory, and practice informing each other. Brandon earned his master’s degree in Urban Studies from University College London and his undergraduate and honors degrees from the University of Cape Town. He has conducted fieldwork in Sierra Leone, Rwanda, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Zimbabwe, and worked for the African Centre for Cities. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Center for Political Studies at the Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan, where he is also conducting work for the African Studies Center. Brandon’s has received fellowships and funding from: The International Journal of Urban and Regional Research; The American Association of Geographers; The Graham Foundation; The Weatherhead Center for International Affairs; Harvard University’s Graduate School of Design; and was recently awarded a Dissertation Completion Fellowship by the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. bfinn@g.harvard.edu Morgan Forde is currently a first-year PhD student. Her research focuses on the history of Black-founded communities in the United States during the 19th and 20th centuries, with a particular interest in the intellectual and urban morphological synergies developed between afro-socialists in the United States, the Caribbean, and the Soviet Union. A journalist and editor by trade, her work is forthcoming in Places Journal and has appeared in the Los Angeles Review of Books, Popular Mechanics, Smart Cities Dive, and Mic. She holds an MPhil in Architecture and Urban Studies from the University of Cambridge where she was a contributing editor for Scroope Journal and a member of the Decolonize Architecture working group, and a bachelor’s in International Politics and Security Studies from Georgetown University. mforde@g.harvard.edu Swarnabh Ghosh is a fourth year Ph.D. student working at the intersection of critical geography, urban theory, environmental history, and science and technology studies. His current research focuses on the entwined historical geographies of irrigation, primary commodity production, and socioecological change in late-colonial and postcolonial South Asia. His dissertation explores the prehistories and afterlives of the “Green Revolution” through an examination of the uneven geographies of agrarian intensification and the transformation of socio-metabolic relations in Northwestern India from the late-nineteenth to the late-twentieth centuries. His recent research and publications have included analyses of labor and social reproduction in the construction industry, theoretical and methodological convergences between critical agrarian studies and theories of planetary urbanization, and the relationship between agro-industrial restructuring and emergent infectious disease. His broader interests include the history of capitalism, histories of managerialism, and the geopolitical economy of capitalist urbanization. Swarnabh received a Master of Architecture from Yale University and a Master of Philosophy in Urban Studies (with distinction) from the University of Cambridge where he studied as a Yale Bass Scholar. His M.Phil. dissertation examined the techno-managerial underpinnings of infrastructure development in post-liberalization India through an analysis of the Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor. Before coming to Harvard, Swarnabh worked as a designer in New York City with the interdisciplinary studio Diller Scofidio + Renfro where he was involved in projects spanning art, media, and architecture. His writings have appeared in Urban Studies, The Avery Review, and Metropolis among various other publications. swarnabh_ghosh@g.harvard.edu Thomas Shay Hill is a PhD Candidate in Urban Planning at the Harvard Graduate School of Design. Tommy is a computer scientist, economic historian, and scholar of urban development patterns. His doctoral research explores the interactions between markets, information, and financial speculation in the urban development process. Tommy is particularly interested in the role of statistical analysis, forecasting, and economic modeling in shaping urban development patterns, from the early 20th Century to the digital age. Tommy’s interests include housing affordability, urban and architectural obsolescence, and the social and civic implications of urban development booms and busts. Tommy is a doctoral fellow with the Harvard Mellon Urban Initiative and a John R. Meyer Dissertation Fellow at the Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies. Tommy’s dissertation research has been supported by the Canadian Centre for Architecture, the Richard Rogers Fellowship, and the Harvard Graduate Society. Tommy holds a Master’s of Science in Computational Science and Engineering from Harvard’s John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and a Bachelors of Arts in Urban Studies from Columbia University. Tommy’s writing has been published in the Journal of Urban History, Environmental Research Letters, the Routledge anthology Architecture and the Smart City, and the Urban History Association’s blog Metropole. thomas_hill@g.harvard.edu I am Jacobé Huet, a sixth-year doctoral student at the GSD. My dissertation explores the visual, historical, and political connections of European modernism with vernacular traditions of the Mediterranean. I examine these overlaps in the context of three architects’ careers—Adolf Loos, Marcel Breuer, and Le Corbusier—as well as three cities—Tel Aviv, Algiers, and Marseille. In 2021, one of my dissertation chapters will be published as a peer-reviewed article in the 38th issue of Muqarnas: An Annual on the Visual Cultures of the Islamic World. I wrote this article titled “Prospective and Retrospective: Le Corbusier’s Twofold Voyage d’Orient” after spending a summer researching in the archives of the Fondation Le Corbusier. Based on a new reading of the last manuscript of Le Corbusier’s book Le Voyage d’Orient, this article demonstrates how the architect re-wrote a segment of his own history, especially in relation to his ideas of modernity, tradition, inspiration, and attachment to Mediterranean architecture. Before enrolling at Harvard, I received a bachelor’s degree in art history from Université Paris 1 Panthéon Sorbonne and a master’s degree from Williams College and the Clark Art Institute. My doctoral project has been supported by several research centers at Harvard and beyond, including the Aga Khan Program for Islamic Architecture, the Center for European Studies, the Center for Jewish Studies, the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs, and the Fondation Palladio. jacobe_huet@g.harvard.edu Sarah Hutchenson focuses on the intersection of space and political structure in early modern Britain, exploring themes such as the appropriation and rehabilitation of royal authority during the Interregnum and Restoration. She worked on the Provenance Project in the Rare Books collection at the National Library of Scotland, and as a volunteer archivist at the Royal Botanic Gardens in Edinburgh. She has published on cartography and the visualization of Protestant theology in late Elizabethan England, in Durham’s MEMSA journal; other recent projects have examined scientific knowledge and politicized xenophobia in sixteenth-century London, use of heraldry and symbolism in the portraiture and court literature of Elizabeth I, and royal parks under Charles II. Sarah holds a master’s degree in Renaissance and Early Modern Studies from the University of Edinburgh, and a bachelor’s in history (with a minor in music history) from Vassar College. In between college and her master’s, Sarah worked in fundraising and event planning for a small nonprofit in Boston. sarah.t.hutcheson@gmail.com Hannah Kaemmer is a PhD candidate working on early modern architecture and engineering. Her dissertation considers the relationship between engineering and empire in 17th-century England, and focuses on the role of expertise in the construction of fortifications in colonial sites in Morocco, Ireland, and Newfoundland. Broadly, she is interested in the politics of architecture and architectural knowledge, as well as the intersection of science and architecture in the early modern period. Recent work has included research on architectural and scientific images in antiquarian debates and interpretations of Ottoman architecture in Restoration England. Hannah holds a Master of Arts with distinction in the Archaeology of Buildings from the University of York, where she was a Fulbright scholar, and a Bachelor of Arts in History from Williams College. Before her PhD, she was a resident fellow at the Preservation Society of Newport County, where she researched patron-architect relationships in the late-19th century, as well as the rebuilding and preservation of Newport’s Gilded Age homes in the 20th century. She has also worked as a consultant for nonprofit arts and cultural organizations across the U.S. Hannah is an affiliate of the Early Modern World at Harvard. Her dissertation research has been supported by the Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art and the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. hkaemmer@g.harvard.edu Hanan Kataw is a fourth-year PhD student. Her research looks at discourse-making practices in the western discipline of architecture, focusing on the rise of the digital discourses of the 1990s and examining the social and institutional systems and power relations that conditioned and shaped these discourses. She holds a bachelor’s degree in Architecture Engineering from The University of Jordan, where she was awarded the Issa Hassan Abu Al Ragheb Award for Academic Excellence. She also holds a Master of Arts in Architectural History with distinction from the Bartlett School of Architecture, University College London. Her master’s thesis focused on the architect’s agency and the politics of knowledge in the “digital generative architecture” discourse. She has worked as a visiting lecturer at Al-Zaytoonah University in Jordan, where she taught a class on the theories and applications of Building Information Modeling (BIM). She was also a research consultant at Studio-X Amman run by Columbia University’s Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation and the Columbia Global Centers, where her research focused on the history of urban planning in the city of Amman and the different digital technologies used in mapping the urban change and their influence on the ways the city has been represented and narrated. In 2019, Hanan participated in the Global Modernism curatorial research residency at the Bauhaus Foundation in Dessau, Germany, and edited Handle with Care: Unpacking a Bulky Table, an anthology that looks at a table designed by Marcel Breuer as a case study, investigating the incorporation of everyday objects into the design canons. Hanan’s doctoral research has been supported by fellowships from the Canadian Centre for Architecture and the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. hanankataw@g.harvard.edu Gabriel Kozlowski is a Brazilian architect and curator. He is principal at the architectural firm POLES.studio. Gabriel is currently Assistant Curator for the 17th International Architecture Exhibition – La Biennale di Venezia 2021. Past curated exhibitions include “Walls of Air” (the Brazilian Pavilion at the 2018 Venice Biennale) and “Housing+” (the 3rd Biennial Exhibit of the MIT L. Center for Advanced Urbanism). His recent books include: The World as an Architectural Project (MIT Press, 2020); 8 Reactions for Afterwards (RioBooks, 2019); and Walls of Air: Brazilian Pavilion 2018 (Bienal de São Paulo, 2018). Graduated from the Master of Science in Urban Design program at MIT, Gabriel has held research positions at the School of Architecture and Planning, the Leventhal Center for Advanced Urbanism and the Senseable City Lab, and taught graduate-level seminars, workshops and studios at the same school. For his PhD at Harvard, Gabriel is looking at the history of urbanization in the Amazon basin. His research interest suggests that the way politics and power got spatialized in that region has defined the framework through which we conceive of and relate to the Amazon, and that a new reading of it can, in turn, inform the way we understand and address broader urbanization processes as well as the responses from our design disciplines. gabrielkozlowski@g.harvard.edu gabrielkozlowski.com tomorrowanew.org Sunghwan Lim is a licensed engineer in architecture and building facilities. He is a first-year Ph.D. student in Architecture, concentrating in Architectural Technology, advised by Professor Ali Malkawi. His research focuses on sustainable and high-performance building technologies, with particular interests in energy simulation, natural ventilation, and HVAC (heating, ventilating, and air conditioning) system studies. Sunghwan is currently working on developing innovative building control systems and increasing the potential of natural ventilation at the Harvard Center for Green Buildings and Cities. Sunghwan earned his Master in Design Studies (MDes) degree in Energy and Environment from Harvard Graduate School of Design in 2021. He received the Dean’s Merit Scholarship during his study and his master’s thesis, entitled Controlling Wind Pressure around Building by Multiangle Ventilation Louver for Higher Natural Ventilation Potential, was awarded to Daniel L. Schodek Award for Technology and Sustainability. Before joining the Harvard community, Sunghwan double majored in Interior Architecture & Built Environment and Architecture & Architectural Engineering at Yonsei University in Seoul, Korea. After receiving his bachelor’s degree, Sunghwan worked as a construction engineer at Samsung Construction and Trading company for six years. His invaluable experiences with building an airport in Mongolia and constructing a residential complex in Seoul profoundly shaped his research ideas and motivated him to contribute to the field of architecture. sunghwan_lim@gsd.harvard.edu Adam Longenbach is a third-year PhD student studying the relationship between architecture, science, and visual culture, primarily in late-nineteenth to mid-twentieth century America. His research follows two overlapping lines of inquiry, roughly bracketed between the onset of the Second Industrial Revolution and the early years of the Cold War. The first concerns the rise of photography, film, and television as tools for the production and rapid circulation of knowledge, and by extension, new ways of understanding and producing space. The second concerns the emergence of thermodynamics in the mid-nineteenth century, followed by the influence of this field on scientific and cultural perceptions of both human and nonhuman bodies and their relation to machines. A primary interest is how the rise of modern visual mass media and mechanization connect to histories of violence and control over the body and the built environment, particularly in military contexts. For instance, Adam’s current work examines a series of case studies from World War II and the postwar period in which the technical knowledges of architecture, science, and cinema were weaponized by the US military to enable acts of mass violence against both foreign and domestic civilians. Adam holds a Master of Architecture in urban studies from The Cooper Union and a Master of Architecture in History, Theory, and Criticism of Architecture from The Pennsylvania State University, where he also earned his NAAB-accredited Bachelor of Architecture. His writing most recently appears in Thresholds, Log, and The Avery Review. Before coming to Harvard, Adam practiced for several years in design offices around the US and abroad including Olson Kundig Architects, Allied Works Architecture, and Snøhetta. adamlongenbach@g.harvard.edu adamlongenbach.com Manuel López Segura is a seventh-year PhD candidate, an architect, and a Master’s in architectural history. His research in the GSD MDes program focused on the involvement of architecture in the construction of Spain’s democracy, welfare state, and regional identities during the 1980s. He has enjoyed the support of a Fulbright Scholarship. He is the recipient of a 2018-2020 La Caixa Scholarship. As a PhD student, he works on the architecture of political conflict in 1950s to 1970s Italy. He has published in peer-reviewed journals and has presented at the annual conferences of the European Architectural History Network, the Society of Architectural Historians, the Society of Architectural Historians of Great Britain, and the Anglo-Catalan Society, as well as at Yale University and other fora. Manuel holds a professional degree in architecture from the Polytechnic University of València, Spain, an MA in Architectural History from The Bartlett, University College London, and an MDes History & Philosophy of Design from the GSD. Manuel knows French, Spanish, Italian, Catalan, and some German. He has served as a teaching assistant to Professors Rafael Moneo and Hashim Sarkis and as a teaching fellow in the courses BTC I, BTC III, and Theories of Landscape Architecture at the GSD, and Landmarks of World Architecture at FAS. mlopezsegura@fas.harvard.edu Sarah Moses is a first-year PhD student with an interest in the interpretation of sites with “difficult” or contentious histories. She holds dual Master of Architecture and Master of Science in Historic Preservation degrees from the University of Pennsylvania School of Design where she won the William M. Mehlhorn Scholarship for Architectural Theory and Anthony Nicholas Brady Garvan Award for Outstanding Thesis for her examination of conflict between a collective desire to memorialize and a protective impulse to stigmatize, sanitize, or obliterate sites with traumatic or violent associations, such as sites with legacies of enslavement. She holds an undergraduate degree in fine arts from Yale University. Prior to her arrival at Harvard, Sarah was an architectural historian for the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission. Her focus on lesser-known facets of New York’s past led to publications about female reformers’ creation of the first purpose-built kindergarten in Brooklyn, the adaptation of Civil War-era manufactories by Abstract Expressionist artists for use as studios, and Redemption-era racism through the lens of Tin Pan Alley’s 1890s-1910s popular music businesses. These projects were urgent case studies in the material regulation of historic sites with cultural import, the latter of a confrontational “negative heritage” site. sarahmoses@g.harvard.edu Sabrina Osmany is a PhD candidate in Artificial Intelligence & Design Computation at Harvard University’s Graduate School of Design. Her research focuses on developing Deep Generative Models of Artificial Imagination. She is co-advised between Harvard and MIT working in collaboration with Isola lab at MIT-CSAIL. Sabrina’s research combines machine learning with cognitive linguistics, and cognitive neuroscience of human visuospatial reasoning, in an effort to lay the foundations for machines that are capable of human-like generative capacities such as imagination and creativity. Her work builds on models of Conceptual Exploration which integrates language as a fundamental component of the cognitive experience. Sabrina uses these language insights to train machines that can perform tasks such as abstract thinking, cross-modal reasoning, concept transfer and concept invention, which is the immanent frontier towards Artificial General Intelligence. Sabrina’s research draws from key insights from research on Mental Spaces suggesting how humans choose to represent concepts frames the choices they make during in subsequent spatial reasoning tasks. As such, representations instantiate frame consistent choice architectures. This means that representations can both reduce or expand the range of exploration of choice outcome. Nudging literature from Cognitive Psychology has shown that this phenomenon can be used for enhancing decision making in rational choice settings. Sabrina’s work asks how it might also augment the human imagination and creative arts. This has bearings on the nature of agency and intentionality. Generative Models enable an expansion in our conceptual agency, authority and imagination in the realm of the Arts but also New Ways of Thinking. By forecasting and generating Art Futures, and possible Future Worlds, Sabrina is currently developing generative models for applications in Neural Diversity and Brain Machine Interfaces. Sabrina holds an M.P.S. from the Interactive Telecommunications Program at NYU where her research explored how human agency and intentionality are mediated by the design of interactive systems, focusing on the the development of intelligent virtual environments that sense, decode, and mediate human choice making behavior. In collaboration with NYU’s Center for Neural Science, Sabrina developed her thesis, the Human Avatar Project, an anatomical, 27 degree-of-freedom upper-limb simulation to aid Pesaran lab’s research in brain-machine interfaces for robotic prosthetics. Her interactive work includes the development of a programming language in Urdu, a mobile app that uses computer vision to identify and connect with network devices, and a 120 ft. video installation at InterActiveCorp headquarters in New York City. She has exhibited Computational Art work internationally and maintains a vibrant artistic practice alongside her research. Sabrina studied Philosophy at Bard College, completing a thesis, The Stature of Man in the Age of Creative Machines, which explored the cybernetic implications on of machines surpassing human creative intelligence. She is a mentor for OpenAI Scholars Program and currently serves on the board of the Hannah Arendt Center for Politics and Humanities at Bard College. Sabrina is from Karachi, Pakistan. osmany@g.harvard.edu sabrina-osmany.com Christina Shivers is a sixth-year PhD candidate in Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning. Her dissertation investigates the rise of market-based environmental policies since the 1970s through researching the history of surface-mined land reclamation programs in Canada and the United States. Specifically, she looks to the influence of ecological and economic thought on the planning and design of formerly mined sites in order to understand the ways in which reclamation research influenced environmental policy at the national and international scales. Christina is a Graduate Student Affiliate and Graduate Research Fellow at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs Canada Program, and is the recipient of the Weatherhead Center’s Dissertation Writing Grant for the 2021-22 academic year. She was previously the recipient of the Warren Center for Studies in American History Term-Time Dissertation Research Grant in 2020. Christina was a participant in the Garden and Landscape Studies Graduate Student Workshop at Dumbarton Oaks in the summer of 2020 and was a doctoral fellow at the Canadian Center for Architecture in Montreal in 2019. She has presented her work at a number of venues including the 2021 New England Society of Architectural Historians annual conference, the 2021 HAUS PhD Symposium at Cornell University, 2019 Annual Conference for the Society for American City and Regional Planning History, the Society of Architectural Historians 2018 International Conference in Minneapolis, the Berlin Unlimited Urban Arts Festival in Berlin, Germany, the AIA Washington D.C. Emerging Architects Thesis Showcase and has been published in MAS Context. Christina is also a visual artist and electronic musician. She was previously awarded the AIA Atlanta Emerging Voices Award in 2016 and presented an exhibition entitled Contrapuntal Narratives: Architectural Drawing Machines for Atlanta. She has also exhibited her artistic work at Harvard Graduate School of Design’s fortyK Gallery, at Kennesaw State University in Georgia, and recently installed a sculpture at the Nashville International Airport. Christina also hosts a monthly radio show titled Sub-Oscillations on Echobox Radio. Christina holds a B.A. in Music with a concentration in Music Theory and Performance from Florida State University, a M.Arch degree from the Georgia Institute of Technology, and an AM degree in Urban Planning from Harvard University. christina_shivers@g.harvard.edu Caroline Filice Smith is a G4 interested in the political economy of urban design, racialized histories of urban planning across the US and its empire, and histories of activist planners and architects. Their dissertation explores the emergence of “participatory planning” in the mid-twentieth century. Through a focus on federally funded—yet activist led—community action programs in the US, Caroline’s research examines how the War on Poverty, Black Power, and models of community development originally designed to quell insurgency abroad, intersected to form the foundation of what is today a dominant mode of planning practice in the US. This work touches on issues of democratic social engineering, cold war imperialism, and battles for self-determination across the US — from the coal fields of eastern Kentucky to Oakland and NYC. In addition to their dissertation, Caroline teaches and conducts research as part of CoDesign @GSD’s Urban Design and the Color Line project (publication forthcoming) and has recently completed a report for the Architectural League of NY’s American Round Table Initiative on landscape-led, post-coal futures for Appalachia. They are a member of the Urban Theory Lab at the Harvard GSD, having previously served as an Irving Innovation Fellow, Mexican Cities Initiative Fellow, and research associate for the Harvard Mellon Urban Initiative. Caroline holds a Master of Architecture in Urban Design with Distinction from the GSD, where they were awarded both the Thesis Prize and Academic Excellence Award in Urban Design – additionally, Caroline holds a Bachelor of Architecture from Virginia Tech. Prior to coming to Harvard, Caroline spent five years in professional architectural practice – most of which was spent working for UNStudio in their Shanghai office, and less of which was spent practicing in Los Angeles where they were actively involved in the Occupy movement. cfsmith@g.harvard.edu Sam Tabory is a third-year PhD student. He studies the governance and negotiation of urban-regional systems transitions, paying attention to questions of scale, infrastructure, and boundary. He is interested in how transitions and alternative governance logics interact with evolving spatial and temporal understandings of crisis under conditions of global environmental change. His work considers how conventions of both growth and polity are implicated by such ideas of crisis. Trained both as a planner and a Latin Americanist, comparative and global perspectives inform his work. His interests are interdisciplinary and multi-scalar across planning, law, and urban science. An element of Sam’s focus on transitions includes an interest in the speculative and propositional work of intervening in support of urban systems transitions. Prior to doctoral studies, Sam worked in urban science-policy engagement for a Sustainability Research Network supported by the US National Science Foundation and as a research associate with the global cities research team at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs. Professionally, he has contributed to reports commissioned by UN Environment, the World Bank, and NATO. His scholarly work has been published in Global Environmental Change. Sam holds master’s degrees in urban planning and Latin American studies from the University of Texas at Austin. He holds a bachelor’s degree in Latin American studies from Tulane University. stabory@g.harvard.edu Rodanthi Vardouli is an architect and architectural theorist whose work centers on the phenomenon of the avant-garde in the Arts. Her doctoral work, supervised by Professor K Michael Hays, positions the artistic and architectural production of the early twentieth century avant-garde in Europe (with greater focus on Dada and Surrealism) in relation to emerging theories of performance and performativity in the humanities, with the aim to unveil its constructive potential. Currently a PhD candidate, her dissertation proposes a theory of the avant-garde centered around a notion of agonistic negativity that goes beyond subversive intent and embraces an attitude of revolt within a world perceived in negative terms and therefore irreducible to dialectical antithesis. To pursue this line of inquiry, Rodanthi has–over her years at Harvard–experimented with multiple epistemological perspectives and disciplinary methods of knowledge production that range from archival research oriented toward the production of chronicles and historical accounts (History of Art and Architecture) to poetics (Comparative Literature) and the contemporary discourse on architectural production (Graduate School of Design). She has presented her work at conferences and symposia across the world, including the “Disrupting Narratives: New Perspectives on Collage” Symposium at the University of Edinburgh (7/2019), the Field Studies Colloquium at Princeton SA+P (3/2019) the New England Symposium of Architectural Historians at the MIT Dept of Architecture (4/2018), the Panaesthetics Colloquium at Harvard GSAS (2/2017), the MIT Architecture Studies Faculty Colloquium lecture series (11/2014). Rodanthi is also a frequent invited speaker at the Discourse and Methods graduate seminar taught by Mark Goulthorpe at MIT (2014-2019.) Prior to Harvard, Rodanthi received a Master of Science in Architecture Studies from the MIT Department of Architecture (SMArchS 2014), where she conducted joint research between the History Theory Criticism and the Architectural Design areas of study, as scholar of the Fulbright Greece, Alexander S. Onassis and A.G. Leventis Foundations. For her research at MIT, she was awarded the Arthur Rotch Special Prize for highest academic achievement and original contributions to more than one research fields. Articles based on her MIT thesis were published at the Kurt Schwitters Society annual journal (2014) and the “Research in Architecture” journal edition of the National Technical University of Athens (2016). Rodanthi also holds a Professional Diploma in Architectural Engineering and a Graduate Specialization Diploma from the Design-Space-Culture Interdepartmental Graduate Program at the NTUA. rodanthi.vardouli@gmail.com Dimitra Vogiatzaki is a historian of 18th- century architecture, currently pursuing a PhD in history and theory of architecture at the GSD. Her work focuses on the interplay of architectural theory and praxis with evolving medical, philosophical, and aesthetic theories of dreaming in the Enlightenment. As a doctoral candidate, Dimitra has received multiple fellowships and grants (UCLA Ahmanson Research Fellowship, Jens Aubrey Westengard Fund, A.G.Leventis Foundation grant, and Gerondelis Foundation scholarship among others) to conduct research in archives, special collections, libraries and sites across France, Germany, and the US. She is currently a recipient of the Chateaubriand Fellowship in the Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS) which will enable her to further her collaboration with Sorbonne University in the upcoming year. Dimitra’s doctoral course has been driven by her dual passion for research and teaching. During the past years she served as a Teaching Fellow for graduate courses in the architecture and landscape departments at the GSD. Recently she assisted Professor Joseph Connors in his “Introduction to Western Architecture,” giving weekly in-class presentations, holding office hours and responsibility for the smooth transition of the course in the virtual realm. Simultaneously, Dimitra worked in a research group led by Professor Erika Naginski on putting together a new pedagogy plan for history and theory classes that address the challenges of the shift to a virtual environment, while also promoting social and racial justice and equity. An active member of the Harvard-wide Mental Health Task Force, Dimitra worked closely with Deans Dench and McCavana to formulate concrete proposals for the enhancement of advising structures at the GSAS. She further served for two years as an Arts Fellow for the GSAS Graduate Student Center, solidifying her investment in bottom-up institutional practices that developed during 2009-10, when she represented Greece as a National Contact for the European Architecture Students Assembly. A licensed architect-engineer in Greece (MA, MSc with excellence from the National Technical University of Athens), Dimitra is interested in design, and curatorial activities. Beyond the academic walls, she has participated in art exhibitions in Paris, Istanbul and Athens, and her work was on display at the 2016 Venice Biennale of Architecture (Greek Pavilion). In 2015, with the support of the Fondation Le Corbusier, she produced an exhibition that merged Le Corbusier’s legacy with popular culture and new media art. She enjoys reading poetry, watching documentaries, and traveling, and is always up to chat about history and theory in the -now, virtual- trays. vogiatzaki@g.harvard.edu Eldra Dominique Walker is an architectural historian whose dissertation examines the theme of the “primitive” in nineteenth-century French architectural thought and practice. She received the support of the Bourse Jeanne Marandon from the Société de professeurs français et francophones d’Amérique (SPFFA), the Frederick Sheldon Traveling Fellowship from Harvard University, and the Pforzheimer Fellowship from the Harvard Library. More broadly, Modern European Architecture (1750-1950) is her primary field, and her additional research interests include transnational histories, architectural literature, intersections between race and architecture, history and theory of architectural ornament, and the theory and practice of architectural preservation. Eldra has presented work at conferences organized by the Southeast Chapter of the Society of Architectural Historians, Harvard’s Graduate School of Design, the European Architectural History Network, and the Première Université d’été de programme STARACO (STAtus, RAce, et COuleur) at the University of Nantes. Currently, she is a lecturer and principal advisor to the MDesign Historic Preservation Program for the Department of Architecture at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Additionally, she was the Nettie Seabrooks Graduate Curatorial Intern in European Art at the Detroit Institute of Arts, where she assisted museum curators with an upcoming exhibition entitled “Color of Faith.” Eldra has taught courses at the GSD in Western Architectural history and theory, from the Renaissance to the present. Before coming to Harvard, Eldra was an architectural design reviewer in the District of Columbia Office of Planning. Eldra has an MS in Historic Preservation from the University of Pennsylvania and a BS from Morgan State University. eldrawalker@fas.harvard.edu Xiaoshi Wang is a fourth-year student in the Harvard PhD of Architecture program, and his research focuses on exploring potential connection between geometrical spatial layout and indoor natural ventilation evaluation. He tries to propose and test a method of embodying such connection with expandable CFD dataset and machine learning model implemented to first predict the air flow pattern inside a multi-room indoor space layout, and then optimize this space layout towards a better flow pattern, so as to form a design iteration loop. Xiaoshi is also interested in involving human preference in the design iteration and develop a human-AI interactive mechanism. Before entering his PhD track, Xiaoshi holds a Bachelor of Architecture degree from Tongji University in China, a Master of Science in architecture degree from Columbia University in New York, and a Master in Design Studies degree from Harvard Graduate School of Design. Xiaoshi is currently based in China. xwang4@gsd.harvard.edu Angela Wheeler is a fifth-year PhD student and graduate associate at the Davis Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies. Her dissertation examines historic neighborhood conservation in the postwar Soviet Union and its development as an urban planning tool, site of transnational exchange, and arena for local identity politics. She is broadly interested in the history of heritage conservation movements, experimental and activist approaches to heritage, and the role of preservation pedagogy in design curricula. After working with the International Council of Monuments and Sites as a Fulbright grantee in Tbilisi and conducting HUD surveys of Hawaii public housing, she completed an MSc in Historic Preservation at Columbia University. Her thesis, Socialist in Form, National in Content, investigates official attempts to reconcile historic preservation and postmodern aesthetics with Soviet ideology in the Brezhnev era. Angela’s recent projects include a Graham Foundation grant for “Indigenous Outsiders: Endangered Islamic Heritage in the Republic of Georgia,” an exhibition and publication documenting the wooden mosques of Georgia’s Adjaran Muslim community. Her chapter on mosques of Russia and the Caucasus appeared in Rizzoli’s Mosques: Splendors of Islam and she recently completed the Tbilisi volume for DOM’s Architectural Guides series (forthcoming, 2021). She also organized “Commons: Public Spaces After Socialism,” an interdisciplinary conference hosted by Columbia University’s Harriman Institute for Russian, Eurasian, and East European Studies. Her teaching experience includes courses in urban planning, landscape architecture, and modern architectural history. angelawheeler@g.harvard.edu Ziwei Zhang is a second-year Ph.D. student in Urban planning, focusing on the rural-urban division and coordination in the developing world. She is attentive to the agrarian transformation in labor, resources, and state-society relationship shaped by economic thought and ideological conceptualization. Her scholarly work has been presented at Global Environmental Justice Conference at Yale. Besides her main work in China, she also works on projects in Indonesia and Mexico regarding land tenure, resource management, and institutional building. Ziwei holds a Master in Landscape Architecture, a Master in Design Studies in Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology from the Harvard Graduate School of Design (GSD), and a Bachelor of Architecture from Southeast University, China. She has also experience as an urban designer for one year for Stoss Landscape Urbanism, where she participated in projects in China, the U.S., and the United Arab Emirates. ziweizhang@g.harvard.edu Doctor of Design Program (DDes) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Requirements Curriculum Student Bios Resources Living Guidebook to Virtual Teaching and Learning Prev Next Close Slideshow Back to top Harvard University Graduate School of Design © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Privacy Accessibility Digital Accessibility Maps Contact COVID-19 GSD API Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, exhibitions, and more. Email* Δ Version 1.11.26