Skip to main content University of Washington Research Contact Us About Office of Research Announcements UW Home Quick Links MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Plan/Propose Overview Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Recruit Team Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Submit Proposal Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Setup Setup Overview Sponsor Requirements Facilities and Resources Financials Subawards Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Records and Documentation Methods Collaborations Data Collection Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Manage Manage Overview Financials Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Facilities and Resources Collect Data Analyze Data Subawards Award Changes Reporting Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Closeout Closeout Overview Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Resources Support Offices Human Subjects Division Office of Animal Welfare Office of Research Central Office of Research Information Services Office of Sponsored Programs Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory Washington National Primate Research Center Browse Forms and Templates Policies, Procedures and Guidance Announcements Glossary FAQs Popular Resources Funding Opportunities Grants Information Memorandum (GIMs) Institutional Facts and Rates Research Stats & Rankings New to UW Research UWFT for the Research Community Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Collaboration Connect to Expertise Find Research Expertise Research Centers and Institutes Resources for Collaboration Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources Establish a Research Center or Institute Shared Research Facilities and Resources Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Compliance Compliance Overview Compliance Training Training Overview Research Training Overview Collaborative for Research Education Required Research Training Research Administration Learning HSD Training and Education MyResearch Training Transcript UW Research Menu MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Setup Manage Closeout Resources Collaboration Compliance Training Home UW Research Office of Research Central Office of Research: Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Definitions Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Definitions Close Menu Home Office of Research: Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Committee Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Definitions Diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) is not just a phrase. Each word speaks to distinct values. These definitions are collected from the Office of Research staff and reflect our values. We welcome comments about these definitions at or-dei-committee@uw.edu. Diversity is the presence of differences that enrich our workplace. Some examples of diversity may include race, gender, religion, sexual orientation, ethnicity, nationality, socioeconomic status, language, (dis) ability, age, religious commitment, or political perspective in our workplace. There are many more. We acknowledge that our American culture is rife with systemic racism, sexism, ageism and classism that negatively impacts diversity in the workplace. We cannot fix all of society’s ills, however, we can take steps individually and in our workplace to ensure these systemic ills are not condoned or tolerated. We acknowledge that we can improve diversity in our work environment. We acknowledge that a diverse workplace benefits everyone. We acknowledge our biases and use this knowledge to bring together and employ diverse groups and opinions into decision making. This includes groups who have been and remain underrepresented and marginalized in the field of research and in the broader society. Diversity does not mean we hire based on quotas. Diversity means we hire the candidate that best meets the needs of the unit from a diverse pool of applicants. Equity is ensuring that access, resources, and opportunities are provided for all to succeed and grow, especially for those who are underrepresented and have been historically disadvantaged. The goal for equity is to promote justice, impartiality and fairness within the procedures, processes, and distribution of resources within our workplace. Equity means all persons are paid commensurate with their job duties and performance regardless of their race, sex, age or other personal factors. Equity means all persons are provided with resources to succeed at and engage in their job. Equity means opportunities for job growth and career paths are provided equally to everyone with a focus on merit and not privilege. Equity calls on leaders to provide resources and to provide decision making authority to groups that have historically been disadvantaged and requires an understanding of the root causes of outcome disparities within our society. Inclusion is a workplace culture that is welcoming to all people regardless of race, ethnicity, sex, gender identity, age, abilities, and religion and everyone is valued, respected and able to reach their full potential. Inclusion means our employee standards, policies, and opportunities are updated routinely to ensure all voices are heard. Conversely, we don’t want to fall back on ‘this is how we do it here’ language when an employee suggests another way. Inclusion means we make an effort to understand another person’s perspective when we disagree. Inclusion means we use language that acknowledges diversity, conveys respect to all people, is sensitive to differences, and promotes equitable opportunities. Inclusion means there is transparency in our decision making, hiring and promotion processes. Inclusion means we become aware of our privileges or lack thereof, in our interactions. Inclusion means a person can be their authentic self in the workplace. Inclusion is a welcoming culture for all in every space, interaction, and at all levels. Home Office of Research: Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Committee Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Definitions Poem by OR Staff: Tony “Exclude me please! I mean – Include Me let Me into your friendship but You stare into another direction. Please include Me i beg. You may find i am just like You, afraid, fragile and vulnerable and yes i do feel pain more than a doctor’s order. Include Me so You can feel my efforts and know they are strong even though my story is faded. Include Me in the pool of life and We can swim together and not be bothered by eyes with no form. Include Me in the Real Laughter not the fake, with words that say you make me laugh. Inclusion – a never ending battle for my people.” University of Washington Office of Research Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools OR Support Offices Human Subjects Division (HSD) Office of Animal Welfare (OAW) Office of Research (OR) Office of Research Information Services (ORIS) Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) OR Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory (APL-UW) WA National Primate Research Center (WaNPRC) Research Partner Offices CoMotion Corporate and Foundation Relations (CFR) Enivronmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA) Institute of Translational Health Sciences (ITHS) Management Accounting and Analysis (MAA) Post Award Fiscal Compliance (PAFC) Collaboration Research Expertise Centers and Institutes Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources About Research Fact Sheet Research Annual Report Stats and Rankings Honors and Awards Office of Research Contact Us Manage Subscriptions Gerberding Hall G80 Box 351202 Seattle, WA 98195 Accessibility Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA