Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > About Us > Events Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events CUIMC Grand Rounds Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Events Search by keyword Categories - Any -AdmissionsAdvisingArchitectureArtsAthleticsAwardsBasic Health SciencesBusinessCareersClinical Health SciencesCollege of Dental MedicineCollege of Physicians and SurgeonsColumbia NursingCommencementCommunications and MediaComputer ScienceCore CurriculumCOVID-19DeadlineEarth InstituteEconomicsEducationEngineeringFinanceGlobal ProgramsGovernment and Public PolicyGraduate School of Arts and SciencesHealthcareHuman ResourcesHumanitiesInternational and Public AffairsJournalismLawLibrariesMailman School of Public HealthMusicNatural SciencesOrientationOtherPolitical ScienceReligionResearchReunionSchool of Social WorkSocial JusticeSocial SciencesSportsTeaching and LearningWorld Leaders Forum Date E.g., 06/01/2022 Desmond A. Jordan, MD Memorial Lecture Thursday, June 16, 2022 7:00 AM to 8:00 AM Venue William Black Medical Research Building, 650 W. 168 St., New York, NY 10032 Alumni Auditorium and virtually on Zoom webinar Categories College of Physicians and Surgeons We are celebrating the legacy of Dr. Desmond Jordan at the first memorial lecture in his name. Lecture speaker Dr. William McDade is an anesthesiologist, intensivist, and the ACGME's first chief officer of diversity and inclusion. If you would like to attend virtually, please contact Lakshmie Singh (ls3887@cumc.columbia.edu). IICD Seminar Series: Samra Turajlic, The Francis Crick Institute Thursday, June 16, 2022 4:00 PM to 5:00 PM Venue Online Event Categories Research The Herbert and Florence Irving Institute for Cancer Dynamics hosts a seminar series on the topic of mathematical sciences underpinning cancer research. The monthly seminars take place on the third Thursday of the month, 4:00-5:00 PM EST. The presentations are held via Zoom and are opened to the Columbia community and to researchers outside Columbia University. On Thursday, June 16th (4:00-5:00 PM, EST), IICD welcomes Samra Turajlic, MRCP, PhD, Clinical Science Group Leader at the Francis Crick Institute. To attend the seminar, please register here: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJUtd-utqDouHNReCnJ1rveLHAptIcRoASu1 Title: Tracking Cancer Evolution in Space and Time Abstract: Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) presents an excellent model for understanding of the principles of cancer evolution. It has a narrow repertoire of genetic drivers and yet associates with a variety of clinical phenotypes. In the context of the Tracerx renal programme we have deciphered the “rules” that govern the evolutionary trajectories in ccRcc and how they relate with clinical behaviour. Through mathematical models we have linked different evolutionary trajectories to distinct modes of primary tumour growth. We have identified the genetic bases of metastatic competence in ccRCC and that metastatasising populations preferentially emerge in the tumour centre. Bio: Samra Turajlic completed her undergraduate studies at Oxford University and her clinical training at UCL medical school. She gained a PhD in 2013 from Institute of Cancer Research in the field of melanoma genetics and targeted therapy resistance. In 2014, she was awarded a Cancer Research UK Clinician Scientist Fellowship to study cancer evolution at the Francis Crick Institute. She completed her training in medical oncology in 2015 and was appointed a Consultant Medical Oncologist on the Skin and Urology Units at the Royal Marsden. She became an independent Group Leader at the Francis Crick Institute in 2019, and divides her time between the clinic and her lab. Dr Turajlic is the Chief Investigator of translational studies into melanoma and kidney cancer, and her research goal is to develop an evolutionary understanding of cancer for patient benefit. She is a member of the NCRI Bladder and Renal Cancer Clinical Studies Group, ESMO Faculty member for genitourinary cancers; and Scientific Committee member for ESMO, Molecular Analysis for Personalised Therapy, Kidney Cancer Association, and EORTC-NCI-AACR Symposia. She is a Trustee of the Kidney Cancer Support Network and a Senior Editor at Macmillan Cancer Support. Dr Turajlic receives research funding from CRUK, Rosetrees Trust, the Royal Marsden Cancer Charity, and the RMH/ICR Biomedical Research Centre, among others. Multi-omics Boot Camp: Analysis of Omics Data for Research Studies Wednesday, June 22, 2022 to Friday, June 24, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Research Mailman School of Public Health Multi-omics Boot Camp: Analysis of Omics Data for Research Studies The Multi-omics Boot Camp is a three-day intensive boot camp of seminars and hands-on sessions to provide an overview of concepts and methods used to analyze multiple omics data in observational studies. Specific topics will include integrating germline genetic, gene expression, and exposomic data, gene-environment interaction, mediation, and polygenetic risk scores for assessing risk, estimating subgroups, and selecting relevant features. This three-day intensive workshop will provide an overview of multiple approaches to analyze multiple omic data types measured on the same individuals or via the use of summary statistic data. Instructors have experience in developing and applying methods for omic analysis in genetic and environmental epidemiology and are members of an active program project focused on developing statistical methods for integrated analysis. The workshop will include seminar lectures with hands-on computer lab sessions to put concepts into practice. Since the analysis of multi-omic data is broad in scope, the workshop will survey a range of approaches and highlight the appropriate application and interpretation of each approach for specific research questions. The lab sessions will provide an opportunity to work hands-on with different types of omic data. By the end of the workshop, participants will be familiar with the following topics: Data reduction, including clustering. Regression analysis, including regularized regression, hierarchical models, and partial least squares. Interaction analysis and Genome-wide interaction scans (GWIS). Mediation analysis. Polygenic/polyexposure analysis. Integrative analysis using genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics. Investigators at all career stages are welcome to attend, and we particularly encourage trainees and early-stage investigators to participate. PREREQUISITES AND REQUIREMENTS There are three prerequisites and requirements to attend this training: Each participant must have an introductory background in statistics and epidemiology. Each participant must be familiar with R. Each participant is required to have a personal laptop/computer and a free, basic RStudio Cloud account. All lab sessions will be done using RStudio Cloud. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at ColumbiaSHARP.Multiomics@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. Virtual Drag Bingo Wednesday, June 22, 2022 4:15 PM to 5:15 PM Venue Online Event Categories Human Resources Other Teaching and Learning In honor of PRIDE Month, CUIMC's LGBTQ+ Employee Resource Group will host a series of events. Join us on Wednesday June 22, 2022 4:15pm - 5:15pm, for Virtual Drag Bingo with Indigo Dai also known as Miss Independent! Indigo is part of Drag Legend, Linda Simpson's goofy glamorous team - Indigo has been a drag queen for over a decade and you just might die laughing together! This will be a fun, upbeat, engaging and interactive atmosphere. Raffle prizes will be given to all winners! Advanced registeration is required. Zoom meeting details and Bingo directions will be provided to all participants in advance. This event is open to everyone. Open CTL Fellowships for 2022-23 - Info Session Thursday, June 23, 2022 1:00 PM to 2:30 PM Venue Online Event Categories Teaching and Learning We will soon begin accepting applications for the 2022-23 cohort of the CTL's Teaching Observation Fellows (TOFs) and Teaching Assessment Fellows (TAFs). To support graduate students interested in applying for this fellowship, we are hosting an information session for all qualified graduate students interested in applying to these programs. Details about both fellowship programs can be found on our website. Please join us to ask any questions you might have, and learn more about the goals of the programs. Stipend: TOFs and TAFs are awarded a $2000 stipend for completing a series of activities across the academic year. Eligibility: Columbia doctoral students who have successfully completed the CTL’s Essentials of Teaching and Learning workshop series, a CTL seminar or institute, and/or a CTL fellowship are eligible for this program. CTL will accept applications to these fellowships through July 11th. Attend the info session: Please register to receive a Zoom link for this session. If you're not able to attend this session but would still like to receive additional information about the TOF or TAF program, please contact us at CTLgrads@columbia.edu. This session will be hosted by Ian Althouse and Chris Chen, CTL Senior Assistant Directors. Columbia University makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. Contact ColumbiaCTL@columbia.edu or 212.854.1692 for accommodations. This event may be photographed. Note, if this is an online event, CTL staff may take screenshots. For concerns, contact ColumbiaCTL@columbia.edu. Event Contact Information: Center for Teaching and Learning 212.854.1692 CTLgrads@columbia.edu Situational Awareness Training: Faculty & Students Friday, June 24, 2022 10:00 AM to 11:00 AM Venue Online Event Categories Other Join Columbia's Department of Public Safety in a situational awareness training. What is Situational Awareness? Situational Awareness is a critical life skill, and entails being aware of where you are and to what is happening around you; being alert to potential threats to your health and safety and being cognizant of emergency exits and other paths to safety. What Will The Training Focus On? In this training, you will learn: How the Fight-or-Flight response affects your safety How situational awareness can keep you safe “What are the odds?”-being informed to make good decisions for your personal safety Techniques to develop awareness Personal safety resources Run. Hide. Fight. – a strategy for your personal safety in emergency situations RSVP is required. After you complete your registration, you'll receive a confirmation email containing the Zoom link for joining the event. Epigenetics Boot Camp Monday, June 27, 2022 to Tuesday, June 28, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Mailman School of Public Health Research Epigenetics Boot Camp: Planning and Analyzing DNA Methylation Studies for Human Populations The Epigenetics Boot Camp is a two-day intensive boot camp of seminars and hands-on analytical sessions to provide an overview of concepts, techniques, and data analysis methods utilized in human epigenetics studies and focused on DNA methylation array. This two-day intensive boot camp integrates the principle concepts of epigenetics and the effects of risk factors on the epigenome as we step through the key components of designing and executing DNA methylation studies. Led by a team of scientists with more than 50 years of combined expertise in the field of environmental epigenetics, this epigenetics training will integrate seminar lectures with hands-on computer sessions to put concepts into practice. Emphasis will be given to leveraging existing resources from ongoing studies and initiating new investigations. The afternoon lab sessions will provide an opportunity to work hands-on with real methylation data generated by the Illumina Infinium MethylationEPIC (850k) BeadChip platform. Participants will learn and practice data handling, cleaning, and basic analysis of epigenome-wide DNA methylation data. This training will not cover WGBS or analyses from sequencing experiments in animal models. By the end of the epigenetics training, participants will be familiar with the following topics: Principles of epigenetics Concept ideation and study design Sample collection and processing Laboratory methods and platforms for analysis Data handling and cleaning Analysis of 450K/EPIC data Study design advantages and pitfalls Emerging epigenetic topics and laboratory platforms Investigators at all career stages are welcome to attend, and we particularly encourage trainees and early-stage investigators to participate. PREREQUISITES AND REQUIREMENTS Each participant is required to have a personal laptop/computer and a free, basic RStudio Cloud account. All lab sessions will be done using RStudio Cloud. The Boot Camp will use data sets in R, therefore participants must have a basic understanding of this platform prior to attending the Boot Camp. If you have never used this platform before, make sure to step through all the tutorials outlined below so you have the basic skills needed for Boot Camp success. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at Columbia.EBC@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. GIS Workshop: Visualizing and Analyzing Health Data Monday, June 27, 2022 to Tuesday, June 28, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Mailman School of Public Health Research GIS Workshop: Visualizing and Analyzing Health Data The GIS Workshop is a two-day intensive workshop that will introduce participants to the fundamental concepts and hands-on techniques of health data visualization and analysis using publicly available open source GIS programs. This two-day intensive course aims to introduce participants to the fundamentals of data visualization using the open-source QGIS program and building towards the introduction of foundational spatially-centered approaches to identifying relationships and associations among population and environmental variables. Led by Dr. Jeremy R. Porter, one of the highest-rated teachers at the Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health and the author of many celebrated geospatial analysis publications and books, this workshop will integrate lectures with hands-on application. The workshop emphasizes the use of open-source software packages and publicly available environmental and demographic data as an example of potential applications of these data with spatially centered visualization and analytic techniques. The workshop is comprised of 4 components 1) visualization, 2) geo-processing, 3) cluster analysis, and 4) relationship identification. Within each component, a lecture is followed by an opportunity to put the methods learned into practice. By the end of the workshop, participants will be familiar with the following topics: Principles of data visualization and analysis Sources and techniques for the acquisition and management of spatial data Methods and techniques for the visualization of spatial data Techniques for the identification of statistical spatial (and spatio-temporal) clusters Techniques for the incorporation of spatial information in more traditional regression methods of association and relationship identification among variables. Investigators at all career stages are welcome to attend, and we particularly encourage trainees, students, and early-stage investigators to participate. PREREQUISITES & REQUIREMENTS There are three prerequisites/requirements to attend this workshop: Each participant must have an introductory background in statistics. Each participant must be familiar and have a basic understanding of R. Each participant must bring a laptop with QGIS, saTScan, GeoDa, R, and R-Studio downloaded and installed prior to the first day of the workshop. All of the packages listed are available for free download and installation on Mac, PC, and Linux devices. Personal laptops will be used for multiple workshop sessions. If you have any specific questions about prerequisites/requirements, please email us. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at ColumbiaSPH.GIS@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. Update on Workup and Treatment of Gastric Adenocarcinoma Tuesday, June 28, 2022 5:00 PM to 6:30 PM Venue Online Event Categories College of Physicians and Surgeons This webinar will provide an update on the current multidisciplinary workup and treatment of patient with gastric adenocarcinoma. Dr. Chin Hur (Gastroenterology) will discuss screening endoscopy and staging with endoscopic ultrasound. Dr. Sam Yoon (Surgical Oncology) will describe the extent of gastric resection and lymphadenectomy with a focus on minimally invasive robotic surgery. Dr. Ryan Moy (Medical Oncology) will describe the current use of chemotherapy for locally advanced disease and metastatic disease as well as targeted therapies and immunotherapy. Each panelist will give a 15-20 minute didactic presentation with PowerPoint slides, then review some cases or have a Q&A The target audience for this course is physicians to see patients at risk for gastric cancer and patients who are diagnosed with gastric cancer. We welcome participation of allied health professionals including nurse practitioners and physician assistants who are integral members of the treatment team. Residents and fellows in training are encouraged to participate in the course. Upon conclusion of this activity, participants will be better able to: • Recognize which individual should be screened for gastric cancer • Describe the appropriate workup and treatment of patients with newly diagnosed gastric cancer • Discuss the latest surgical and medical therapies of gastric cancer This activity has been approved for AMA PRA Category 1 CreditsTM The Morris Symposium on Medical Education presented by Helena Hansen Tuesday, June 28, 2022 5:00 PM to 7:00 PM Venue Roy And Diana Vagelos Education Center, 104 Haven Ave., New York, NY 10032 Clyde and Helen Wu Auditorium Categories College of Physicians and Surgeons Teaching and Learning Columbia Nursing Mailman School of Public Health College of Dental Medicine Dean's Lecture Series The Dr. Thomas Q. Morris Symposium on Medical Education “Beyond Magic Bullets: white race as social determinant of the opioid crisis” presented by Helena Hansen, MD, PhD Professor of Psychiatry Co-Chair, Research Theme in Health Equity and Translational Social Science Associate Director, Center for Social Medicine and Humanities UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine Tuesday, June 28, 2022 at 5 p.m. Clyde and Helen Wu Auditorium | Vagelos Education Center 104 Haven Avenue, Room 201/301 Reception to follow in the Milstein Family Lobby Non CU-affiliates and those unable to attend in-person can attend virtually on Zoom by registering here https://columbiacuimc.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_aBMsYGs4SASbw3ZB6wKfVA More information on the Dr. Thomas Q. Morris Symposium on Medical Education Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top