Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Give to the UW Menu Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Home Give to the UW Recognition Recognition Close Menu Home Recognition Report to Contributors Report to Contributors 2021 President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award 2021 Gates Volunteer Service Award About the Gates family Gates Volunteer Service Award (GVSA) past recipients UW Recognition Award recipients Thank you for your generosity and your commitment to the University of Washington. By giving to what you care about through the University, you’re making Washington — and the world — a better place. We thank you for your support and are pleased to recognize your kindness. The President’s Circle No matter how you support the UW personally, we welcome you to The President’s Circle as an expression of our gratitude for your total gift of $2,000 or more annually. This may be accomplished through a single gift to a school or program or through a combination of gifts to various initiatives, such as medical research, athletics, the arts or all of the above. Give annually at this level to whatever means the most to you, and you will have a special place in our donor community. Donors 35 and younger are welcomed into The Young President’s Circle for contributions totaling $500 or more in one fiscal year. Benefactors and Laureates Extraordinary generosity equals extraordinary impact — on the lives of UW students, on the future of our community and on the world. The UW honors the generosity of supporters who have made cumulative gifts and pledges totaling $100,000 and up with special recognition. UW Benefactors and Laureates are forging a remarkable legacy. This legacy is more than a number: It is an affirmation of your belief in the potential of our students, faculty and staff who are striving every day to build a better future for us all. Henry Suzzallo Society The Henry Suzzallo Society honors and celebrates the alumni and friends who make a commitment to support the University through a planned gift. The UW is pleased to acknowledge commitments made through a bequest, annuity, trust, life insurance policy or other deferred gift by recognizing these donors as members of this special society. There is no minimum gift level, and lifetime membership for our 2,700+ members is complimentary. Gates Volunteer Service Award The Gates Volunteer Service Award is presented annually by the University of Washington and the UW Foundation to recognize and honor individuals whose long-term contributions of time, service and philanthropy have encouraged others to support the UW as well. Recipients of the Gates Volunteer Service Award exemplify the highest standards of service to the University of Washington, modeled by the singular vision and generosity of the William H. Gates family, whose volunteer service, commitment of time and philanthropy continues to advance the work of the UW in profound and enduring ways. Home Recognition Report to Contributors Report to Contributors 2021 President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award 2021 Gates Volunteer Service Award About the Gates family Gates Volunteer Service Award (GVSA) past recipients UW Recognition Award recipients Search for: University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA