Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Contemplative Studies Initiative Site Navigation Home About Us The Concentration Resources News Contemplative Program Development Network Brown COST Syllabuses Syllabuses from Other Institutions PowerPoint Presentations Think Tank Videos Brown COST Course Documents The Catherine Kerr Vital Energy in Health and Healing Lecture and Workshop Series Subscribe to our Listserv Print this Page Share this Page Contemplative Studies Initiative Brown University Box 1927 59 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1798 [email protected] Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Contemplative Studies Initiative The Brown University Contemplative Program Development Network The Brown University Contemplative Program Development Network Welcome to the Brown University Contemplative Program Development Network. These pages are the “Brain Child” of the Brown University Mind and Life Think Tank (September 22—24, 2017) and, as such, are devoted to an ongoing discussion of how to build Contemplative Studies Programs by exploring our priorities, practices and the problems we encounter along the way. At the center of the Brown Program in Contemplative Studies is the examination of the full range of human contemplative experiences in an effort to catalogue them, to understand their phenomenology, and to comprehend their scientific basis. Because the study of consciousness is the centerpiece of this kind of study, we have developed a teaching methodology that balances traditional “third-person” perspectives with “critical first-person” perspectives. With such a balanced approach, which we have termed “Integrative Contemplative Pedagogy,” we can best approach the study of the full range of human contemplative experience. This kind of integrative pedagogy is known throughout higher education in the Creative Arts, in laboratory science, and in public speaking, for example: what we are doing is extending it to the study of consciousness. At Brown during the last decade, we have slowly built a coordinated program of courses in this deliberately interdisciplinary field, which includes the Humanities, the Sciences, and the Creative Arts. We have developed a core faculty teaching in these areas, have sponsored over a dozen Independent Concentrations, and have advised more than three dozen students in developing a contemplative focus within existing concentrations. We have also, through the generosity of our donors, sponsored more than 100 lectures and workshops by distinguished scientists, humanists, artists, and contemplative teachers. For more information on our pioneering work, please feel free to peruse the website and, if you have further questions or concerns, contact [email protected]. On the following pages, you will find a growing variety of resources materials to aid you in your exploration of Contemplative Program development: Syllabuses from Brown Contemplative Studies (COST) courses. Syllabuses from other institutions offering Contemplative Studies courses. Digital Recordings of Presentations at the Brown University Mind and Life Think Tank, September 22 – 24, 2017. PowerPoint presentations from Think Tank Participants. Brown COST documents, such as: Qualifications for Teaching Contemplative Practices in the Classroom; Student Disclaimers for Meditation Lab Participation; The Empirical Directive; The Structure of Med Labs, etc. We hope that you find these pages helpful. If you have suggestions or would like to contribute to this site, please contact [email protected]. If you have questions or comments on Contemplative Program Development, please visit our blog at: COST blog. Feel free to visit us often and share our site with your colleagues. Also in Contemplative Studies Initiative Site Navigation Home About Us The Concentration Resources News Contemplative Program Development Network Brown COST Syllabuses Syllabuses from Other Institutions PowerPoint Presentations Think Tank Videos Brown COST Course Documents The Catherine Kerr Vital Energy in Health and Healing Lecture and Workshop Series Subscribe to our Listserv Print this Page Share this Page Contemplative Studies Initiative Brown University Box 1927 59 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1798 [email protected] Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Contemplative Resources Affiliate & Related Sites Retreat Locations Guide Contemplatives at Brown Meditation Community Scholarly Works Un-DUG Facebook Page Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity