Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid Ignite your intellectual curiosity. Build understanding of your peers and of the world around you. Join a community that finds its strength, purpose and wisdom in one another’s contributions. We’ll work, learn and grow together to make meaning from complexity. Begin your journey at Georgetown. Play Youtube Video Why Georgetown? You want to choose a school that’s right for you. But how? Learn about our current students’ college decision process and how they made the choice to enroll here. Hear More “Whys” Explore More Apply for Undergraduate Admission Apply to a Graduate Program Play Youtube Video Access for All We believe it’s important to sustain a truly diverse community. That’s why we commit to meet the financial need of every admitted undergraduate student. We don’t consider your ability to pay when we review your application, and we don’t base our decision on whether you can cover the cost. If you’re accepted here, you belong here. Financial Aid $62K Average starting salary for full-time employed 2018 undergraduate graduates 9th Most Peace Corps volunteers among universities of our size 100% Of undergraduate need met with financial assistance A Testimonial “Why did I come to Georgetown? I liked the idea of a liberal arts education that would provide me with a wholesome and expansive knowledge of topics that were outside my intended major and fields of interest.” Christina’s Story 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide Visit Us Feel the vibrant spirit of our campus by setting up a visit. Tours and information sessions are offered daily. Can’t make it to campus? Our virtual tour walks you through campus from wherever you are in the world. Schedule a Visit Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog