Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Office of University Communications Office of University Communications Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Forward Menu Main Nav BC Forward COVID Testing Back Back Close Updates Overview Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. Faculty & Staff Students & Parents Visitors COVID Testing Results COVID Testing Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Home Updates Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Updates Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. December 14, 2021 Dear Members of the Boston College Community: We write today to provide updates on the University’s plans related to COVID-19 during the second semester. Spring Semester Initial Testing As we did this past August, the University will require that all individuals who plan to participate in activities on campus during the spring semester be tested for COVID-19 prior to the first day of classes on January 18. Faculty and staff will test between Monday, January 10, and Friday, January 14 (see schedule below). Testing for students who reside on campus will occur during their move-in January 15-17, as scheduled through Residential Life. Undergraduates who live off campus and graduate/professional students should test as soon as they return to the area and before engaging in on-campus activities, preferably during the January 10-14 period. All COVID-19 tests will take place in the Margot Connell Recreation Center’s MAC Courts during the following times: Monday, January 10 8:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. Tuesday, January 11. 8:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. Wednesday, January 12 6:30 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. Thursday, January 13 8:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. Friday, January 14 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Saturday, January 15 8:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. Sunday, January 16 8:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. Monday, January 17 8:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. COVID-19 Vaccination Boosters Boston College has benefited from an extremely high level of vaccination this semester (99.3%) that has helped keep our community safe and has enabled our students, faculty, and staff to experience as normal a year as possible. Vaccinations and boosters are helping to make COVID-19 a manageable illness. Accordingly, members of our community who plan to be on campus at any point during the spring semester must obtain a COVID-19 booster vaccination when eligible and upload their card (see below) by February 9, 2022, which is six months from the August 2021 date when students were required to have received their second Pfizer or Moderna dose, or single Johnson & Johnson/Janssen vaccine. The only exception to this booster requirement will be for those who previously obtained a University-approved religious or medical COVID-19 vaccination exemption and have not since been fully vaccinated. Those few community members who were approved by UHS or Human Resources to receive their last Pfizer or Moderna shot after August 9, 2021, and may not be eligible for a booster by February 9, should contact UHS (students) or HR (faculty and staff) for approval on their early second semester booster timetable. COVID-19 Vaccination Booster Clinics & Card Uploading Instructions Boston College will continue to offer COVID-19 vaccination booster clinics early next semester, including each day during the initial testing period January 10-17 (information and appointment sign-up will be forthcoming). We encourage you to receive a booster shot as soon as you are eligible at one of the BC booster clinics or at a local pharmacy during the Christmas break. Those who have already received their booster or who receive it at home in the coming weeks should upload their vaccination/booster card and information as soon as possible. Students should upload COVID-19 Vaccination Record Cards to the Agora Health Services Portal following the steps below: Go to Agora Portal - Other Services - Health Services Select the IMMUNIZATION ICON on the Agora Health Services portal. Choose via the drop down menu the COVID vaccination booster icon, and record the vaccination booster date. Click SUBMIT to save; Take a picture of the vaccination card or document and save it on your computer or phone to upload into the Portal (https://services.bc.edu), found under OTHER SERVICES; Choose the UPLOAD ICON and upload the picture under the COVID vaccination booster in the drop-down menu (Note: the drop-down menu is below the list of "documents available to upload"). Click SELECT FILE, choose the file that you are uploading, and hit the UPLOAD button. Faculty and staff should also upload their Vaccination Cards via the Agora Portal: Click the "PeopleSoft Human Resources Services" link located in the "My Services" section; Confirm your identity through BC's 2-Step Verification process; To log in to PeopleSoft Human Resources while off campus, you will need to connect to a BC VPN and confirm your identity through BC's 2-Step Verification; From the “Main Menu” select “Self Service” then “Personal Information” and select “Update COVID-19 Record”; To upload your CDC COVID-19 Vaccination Record Card, follow the instructions on the page and click “Save"; If you have tested positive for COVID-19, please include your positive test date under the “COVID-19 Testing Record” tab; If you have any questions, please reach out to HR@bc.edu. For COVID-19 testing or vaccination/booster questions, students should contact University Health Services at covidtesting@bc.edu and faculty/staff may contact Human Resources at HR@bc.edu. As we know, COVID-19 will be with us for the foreseeable future and we must learn to live with the virus. We assure you that the University will remain vigilant and flexible in our approach. We are grateful for all those who have helped safeguard the health of our campus community and we ask for your continued cooperation and assistance. David Trainor Vice President, Human Resources Dr. Douglas Comeau Director of University Health Services Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College