HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation FACILITIES Facilities Homepage Fike Recreation Center Featuring Swann Fitness Center Douthit Hills Fitness Center Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex Policies and Procedures Facility Hours Facility Counts Floor Plan FITNESS AND WELLNESS Group Fitness F45 Small Group Training Fitness Assessments Personal Training Wellness Zone INTRAMURAL SPORTS CORE CORE Homepage Register for a Trip Rent Outdoor Equipment Develop Your Skills Request a Custom Trip Apply for a Job Explore Spring Break Trips Explore Winter Break Trips Explore Trips for Incoming Students Contact Us CLUB SPORTS Club Sports Homepage Club Officer Resources Visiting Team Resources Group Fitness F45 Fitness Assessments Personal Training Small Group Training Wellness Zone Online Registration Personal Training Due to shifts within our fitness program area, we are not accepting new Personal Training clients at this time. However, Fit 3D scans are available during the academic semester. Please reach out to cufitness@clemson.edu with any questions or concerns. Thank you! Evaluate Your Personal Trainer Fitness Assessments Fike Recreation Center Fitness Orientation Douthit Hills Fitness Center Fitness Orientation Training at Fike Recreation Center Campus Recreation's Certified Personal Trainers offer individual comprehensive exercise programs designed to meet the goals of their clients. From the novice to the experienced exerciser, our trainers have the knowledge and skill to work with you to help you achieve your personal fitness and wellness goals. Steps to Beginning Your Personal Training Experience Please complete the Personal Training Registration Form Wait to be contacted by our staff confirming that your registration form has been submitted (please give us at least 72 hours to contact you; If you are not contacted within this timeframe, please email cufitness@clemson.edu) Once your registration form has been reviewed by our staff, you will either be paired with a Personal Trainer, be required to obtain medical clearance before proceeding, or be placed on a waitlist until a trainer becomes available. If you do not need medical clearance and there is an available trainer, you will be connected to your trainer via email. You and the trainer will set up a time for an Initial Consultation/Fitness Assessment. During this initial meeting, you will schedule all of your sessions. You may either pay online via the online portal shared with you after being paired with your trainer, or you may pay in person the day of your first training session at the Welcome Center with your Personal Trainer present. Personal Training Package Rates Individual Personal Training Rates: Individual Personal Training Rates Student Packages Member/Employee Packages Three 1-hour sessions: $90 Five 1-hour sessions: $140 Eight 1-hour sessions: $210 Ten 1-hour sessions: $240 Twelve 1-hour sessions: $265 Three 1-hour sessions: $150 Five 1-hour sessions: $225 Eight 1-hour sessions: $340 Ten 1-hour sessions: $410 Twelve 1-hour sessions: $470 Partner Personal Training Rates: All are rates shown per person. Partner Personal Training Rates Student Packages Member/Employee Packages Three 1-hour sessions: $45 Five 1-hour sessions: $70 Eight 1-hour sessions: $105 Ten 1-hour sessions: $120 Twelve 1-hour sessions: $132 Three 1-hour sessions: $75 Five 1-hour sessions: $112 Eight 1-hour sessions: $170 Ten 1-hour sessions: $205 Twelve 1-hour sessions: $235 Personal Training Policies and Procedures Age Requirements: Clients must be 18 years or older to participate in Personal Training. Cancellations: Cancellations must be made a minimum of 24 hours prior to any scheduled session. If a cancellation is not made a minimum of 24 hours prior to any scheduled session, the client will be charged for the full session and the session cannot be made-up. The same applies for a "no-show." Client Membership Requirements: Clients must hold a current Campus Recreation membership via being a Clemson University student or member of the facility. Client Responsibilities: Clients must adhere to all Campus Recreation membership and facility policies and procedures found in the Policy Handbook. Appropriate attire must be worn during all training sessions. Please refer to the Campus Recreation Policy Handbook for guidelines. Clients must report to the lobby of the recreation center to meet their trainer before each session. Initial Consultation and Fitness Assessment: Prior to starting any sessions, Personal Trainers will conduct an initial consultation and fitness assessment. Baseline information will be collected, upon which the trainer can create an appropriate, individualized training regimen. Clients are recommended to follow the Fitness Assessment Guidelines. Medical Clearance: The Department of Campus Recreation reserves the right to deny services to any participant who may not be able to exercise safely within the parameters of the Personal Training program. *Medical clearance may be requested prior to participation*. Payment: All personal training fees must be paid in full online or at the Welcome Center at Fike Recreation Center prior to starting any training sessions. Personal Training Package Restrictions: Personal Training sessions are non-transferable and non-refundable. Medical conditions which prevent the sessions from being redeemed within a 90-day expiration period may be refunded if a physician's note is provided. Individual Personal Training packages may not be split with other clients in any way, regardless of their relationship to the client. Personal Trainer Responsibilities: Only current Campus Recreation Personal Trainers will conduct training sessions. All paperwork must be completed prior to any Personal Training services. Personal Trainers will not accept any direct or additional payment for their services. Session Expirations: Personal Training sessions must be completed within 90 days of the purchase date. Session Locations: All Personal Training sessions will be conducted in Fike Recreation Center, Douthit Hills Fitness Center or surrounding areas. Session Times: All training sessions begin at the time agreed upon by the Personal Trainer and client. If a client is late, time will be deducted from the session. If you have any questions regarding this service, please call 864-656-2350 or email cufitness@clemson.edu Please reference the Clemson Campus Recreation Policies and Procedures for further details on the above information. **Fees are nonrefundable. All payment must be completed before services are rendered. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster