Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Alumni Recruiters Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Carroll School? Diversity & Inclusion Diversity News Accreditation Board of Advisors Faculty Openings Visit Contact Related Links About Boston College Maps & Directions BC News Undergraduate Overview Academics Advising Peer Advisors Staff Advisors Concentrations Minors The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship Career Accelerator Summer Management Catalyst Program Portico Careers Social Media CSOM Undergraduate Career Resources Placement Data Career Accelerator Study Abroad Community & Student Life FAQ CSOM Undergrad FAQs: COVID-19 Mar 13: Letter From Undergraduate Dean's Office Mar 20: Registration and Advising Updates Contact Graduate Overview Admission Visits and Events Tuition and Aid O’Brien Fellowship Graduate Admission FAQ International Applicants Information for U.S. Military MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Part-Time MBA Data Analytics Sequence Electives Applied Learning BC MBA Ambassadors M.S. Programs M.S. in Finance M.S. in Accounting Ph.D. Programs Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. in Finance Ph.D. in Organization Studies Community & Student Life Living in Boston Career Development Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Part-Time Faculty Faculty Expertise Departments Overview Concentrations Academics Accounting Undergraduate Concentrations Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Business Analytics Concentration & Academics Careers Seminar Series Message From the Chairperson Business Law & Society Finance Academics and Study Abroad F22 Registration Info Faculty Ph.D. Program Seminar Series Job Market Candidates Message From the Chairperson Information Systems Concentration & Academics Message From the Chairperson Seminar Series Management & Organization Concentration & Academics Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Marketing Concentration & Academics Careers Awards and Appointments Faculty Message From the Chairperson Fall 2022 Registration Centers Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Carroll School Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Alumni Recruiters BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Departments Marketing Concentration & Academics Marketing Concentration & Academics Careers Awards and Appointments Faculty Message From the Chairperson Fall 2022 Registration Concentration & Academics Overview Marketing Concentration Marketing Minor for Non-Management Students Sample List of Electives Marketing is a dynamic discipline that thrives on change. Customer wants and needs change, technology changes, methods of distribution change, and our society and culture changes. To be successful in marketing, one must anticipate change. One must be sensitive to new opportunities in the marketplace. With this in mind, students are encouraged to maintain a broad perspective when planning their curriculum. A strength in the sciences makes one more sensitive to technological change, writing and public speaking courses help one become a better communicator of ideas, history and literature provide one with a perspective on change in society, psychology and sociology develop insight into human behavior and so forth. Students should also bear in mind that marketing has both quantitative and qualitative dimensions. Making new product decisions requires an understanding of marketing research, making pricing decisions requires an understanding of product costs and managerial accounting, and making retail buying decisions requires an understanding of the relationship among costs, demand and profitability. The successful manager in any discipline must be able to write effectively as well as communicate ideas and results effectively in oral presentations. The time and place to begin developing these skills is here, not on the job. The Marketing Concentration consists of five courses. Required Courses: Course # Course Name Notes Three Core Courses MKTG1021 Marketing Principles Prereq: ACCT1021 MKTG2153 Customer Research Prereq: BZAN1135 Prereq: MKTG1021 MKTG4256 Applied Marketing Management Sr. Year Prereq: MKTG1021 and MKTG2153 Two MKTG Electives View the sample list of electives for a list of offerings. Please note, not all courses are available each semester. Visit the Course Information and Schedule page in Agora for a current list of offerings. Prereq: MKTG1021 From the elective offerings available, students can develop course sequences that support a variety of different possible career paths. The following combinations of marketing courses are suggested for careers in sales, retailing, product management, advertising, and marketing research. Please note that in each case three courses are offered in the sequence. This does not mean that students should necessarily take all three courses but should select two of the three depending on their interests. Students should consult with a faculty advisor in the marketing department for suggestions on other beneficial elective courses in the School of Management and the College of Arts and Sciences. Sales: Professional Selling & Sales Management, Retailing, Customer Relationship Management Retailing: Retailing, Product Planning and Strategy, Consumer Behavior Product Management: Product Planning & Strategy, Consumer Behavior, Communication & Promotion Advertising: Communication & Promotion, Retailing, Product Planning & Strategy Marketing Research: Consumer Behavior, Product Planning & Strategy, Marketing Information Analytics This minor is for non-business students who are interested in developing quantitative and qualitative marketing knowledge and skills to be better prepared for careers in marketing and advertising. Required Courses: Course # Course Name Notes Four Core Courses ACCT1021 Introduction to Financial Accounting MKTG1021 Marketing Principles Prereq: ACCT1021 MKTG2153 Customer Research Prereq: Any Statistics course Prereq: MKTG1021 MKTG4256 Applied Marketing Management Prereq: MKTG1021 and MKTG2153 Two MKTG Electives View the sample list of electives for a list of offerings. Please note, not all courses are available each semester. Visit the Course Information and Schedule page in Agora for a current list of offerings. Prereq: MKTG1021 Below is a sample list of electives available for undergraduate students. Please note, not all courses are available each semester. Please visit the Course Information and Schedule page in Agora for an up-to-date list of current offerings. Course # Course Name MKTG2152 Consumer Behavior MKTG3148 Services Marketing MKTG3153 Retailing MKTG3154 Integrated Marketing Communications MKTG3156 Special Topic: Launching Digital Marketing MKTG3157 Professional Selling & Sales Management MKTG3158 Product Planning & Strategy MKTG3165 Strategic Brand Management MKTG3170 Entrepreneurial Marketing in a Digital World MKTG3176 Marketing Planning MKTG3177 Heritage Marketing MKTG3178 Special Topic: Design Thinking & Strategy MKTG/ISYS3205 TechTrek West MKTG/ISYS3253 Digital Commerce MKTG3258 Marketing Analytics for Customer Insights MKTG3625 Luxury Marketing MKTG6157 Professional Selling & Sales Management MKTG6610 Sports Marketing MKTG/ISYS6621 Social Media, Emerging Tech., and Digital Business MKTG/ISYS6635 New Media Industries Back To Top Back To Top Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Apply Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College