Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Undergraduate Admissions Menu Search TTU Undergraduate Admissions Diversity, Equity & Inclusion A dynamic mix of people, cultures, backgrounds, nationalities, ideas, and ways of seeing the world is the foundation of our commitment to equity and inclusion at Texas Tech University. Our students come from diverse socioeconomic, cultural, religious, global, political, and academic backgrounds. From first-generation college students to students from more than 100 different countries across the globe, we create opportunities for you to find your community as a Red Raider. Ultimately, it's our goal that the interactions and discussions that happen here may be the most important lessons you will learn as you go through this journey. The Division of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, in partnership with the Division of Enrollment Management, have devoted a number of resources dedicated to your success at Texas Tech. Financial Aid & Scholarships The Office of Student Financial Aid & Scholarships is ready to assist you and your family financially through need-based aid, scholarships, or our Red Raider Guarantee Program which assures mandatory tuition and fees to students whose family's adjusted gross inccome is $65,000 or less. Learn more here. Connect with your Admissions Counselor As a prospective student to Texas Tech University, we provide you with a dedicated admissions counselor who can assist you and your family as you navigate the enrollment process. Your admissions counselor is ready to assist you at any stage or grade level. From course preparation in high school or community college to essay writing tips, we encourage you to connect with them soon! Find your admissions counselor here. The Lauro Cavazos & Ophelia Powell-Malone Mentoring Program (Mentor Tech) Enhance your experience at TTU through a faculty or staff mentor relationship. Mentor Tech enhances the quality of the education experience through a mentor/protégé relationship to assist students with going through the educational journey and career exploration. Learn more and join here. First Generation Transition & Mentoring Programs (FGTMP) First Generation College Students are students who neither parent(s) or guardian(s) attained a bachelor's degree from a university within the United States. First Generation Transition & Mentoring Programs is dedicated to increasing the retention and graduation rates of first-generation students. FGTMP utilizes Peer Coaches to focus on the academic and social transition of first-generation college students at Texas Tech University. Learn more and get involved here. TRIO Student Support Services TRIO Student Support Services (SSS) is designed to increase persistence and graduation rates through services and resources. TRIO SSS provides academic advising, tutoring, financial literacy development, graduate school and career preparation, and exposure to cultural activities. Students who are first-generation, demonstrate a financial need, or are registered with TTU Student Disability Services are eligible to apply for the program here. AVID & Office of Academic Enrichment The Office of Academic Enrichment (OAE) provides guidance, support, and enhances students' first year college experience through the AVID Student Success course curriculum, academic support, and resources. The mission of OAE is to aid students in identifying barriers and needs, while increasing their academic engagement and social interactions through college readiness initiatives and professional preparation. Enroll in IS 1102 at orientation and discover more! Office of LGBTQIA Education and Engagement The Office serves the Texas Tech community through facilitation and leadership of programming and advocacy efforts. These initiatives are aimed at strengthening the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex, and asexual (LGBTQIA) community, as well as serving as a resource for the ally community. Together, this work sustains an inclusive campus that welcomes people of all sexual orientations, gender identities, and gender expressions. Find out more here. Student Intersectional Leadership Council (SILC) The Student Intersectional Leadership Council provides leadership opportunities focusing on intersectionality, interpersonal, and intercultural leadership development. SILC builds inclusive communities of students through education, advocacy, social justice, heritage celebrations, cultural competence, and global engagement. Students lead the university in organizing and celebrating cultural and heritage programs, events, weeks and months that create the diverse community at Texas Tech. Get involved and be a part of positive change. Military & Veterans Program (MVP) Military & Veterans Programs is here to assist veterans and their families in achieving academic, personal, and professional success. We assist individuals in a seamless transition from military to civilian life by establishing educational benefits, encouraging campus and community engagement, and helping to provide a positive experience through degree completion and on to a successful future. McNair Scholars Program The McNair Scholars Program prepares undergraduate students for doctoral studies through involvement in research and other scholarly activities. McNair participants are either first-generation college students with financial need or embers of a group that is historically underrepresented in graduate education and have demonstrated strong academic potential. McNair provides a series of workshops on research methods, data collection, research writing, and maintaining research budgets. These workshops culminate in an eight-week research summer program where students with their Faculty Mentor complete a research project that simulates graduate school level work. TTU Chess Program The Chess Program brings outstanding students from all over the world to Texas Tech University. Competing at all division levels, the program provides opportunities for all ratings from International Grandmasters to club players in addition to offering scholarships at both the undergraduate and graduate level. Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 233 Administration Building Box 45024 Lubbock, Texas 79409 (806) 742-7025 diversity@ttu.edu Undergraduate Admissions Like Undergraduate Admissions on FacebookLike Undergraduate Admissions on Facebook Follow Undergraduate Admissions on twitterFollow Undergraduate Admissions on twitter Follow Undergraduate Admissions on InstagramFollow Undergraduate Admissions on Instagram Address Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (806) 742-1480 Email admissions@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 9, 2022 11:40 AM Undergraduate Admissions Admission Undergraduate Admissions Admission Back Become a Red Raider Undergraduate Admissions Admission Become a Red Raider Back I'm Admitted I’m a High School Student I’m a Transfer Student I’m a Former Tech Student I’m an International Student My Students Want to be Red Raiders Admission Resources Undergraduate Admissions Admission Admission Resources Back En Español Find my Counselor Important Dates Other Admission Residency Determination Resources Request Information Academics Undergraduate Admissions Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Admissions Academics Academics Back Areas of Study Majors A-Z Colleges Online and Regional Programs Enrichment Undergraduate Admissions Academics Enrichment Back Undergraduate Research Study Abroad Honors College Preparation for Success Explore Undergraduate Admissions Academics Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Chat with Current Students Campus Tours & Events Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Back Schedule a Tour Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Schedule a Tour Back Campus Tours Large Group Tours Contact Us Attend an Event Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Attend an Event Back On-Campus Events Regional Events Explore Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Explore Back Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Campus Life Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Back Live Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Live Back Campus Experience Dining Housing Safety Connect Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Connect Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Spirit & Traditions Student Organizations Recreation Explore Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Chat with Current Students Cost & Aid Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Back Find Value at Texas Tech Financial Aid Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Net Cost Calculator Important Dates Financial Aid Forms Scholarships Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Scholarships Back For Incoming Freshmen For Incoming Transfers Frequently Asked Questions Explore Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index