Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home Careers : Career Service for Students Career Service for Students alt="An employer makes introduction to a student" Career Services for Students Get the support and resources you need to explore, prepare for, and act on your career goals. We embrace and celebrate the diversity each of you brings to our school and we are committed to creating an inclusive environment where you are welcomed, respected, and supported. Regardless of your background or identity, it is our hope that you feel equipped to explore, prepare for, and act on your career goals and contribute your rich ideas, skills, and values to the world. As a staff, we realize that not everyone has equal access to career-related opportunities and networks but we strive to do our utmost to support you in making your career goals a reality. We welcome you to connect with us early and often and look forward to getting to know you. You are always welcome to reach out to us at any time - your continuous feedback and engagement with our office is essential to our goal of empowering all iSchool students to pursue meaningful careers and lives, and we look forward to working with you! On behalf of the Career Development Office team, Katie Davidson, Undergraduate Career Placement Specialist Contact us Katie Davidson Undergraduate Career Coach Send an Email Career Development Office Resources Individualized face-to-face advising where any career-related topics may be discussed To make an appointment, please visit HireUTexas powered by Handshake and click on "Career Center - Appointments - Schedule a New Appointment – School of Information". Currently all appointments are virtual through Zoom. We are here to talk with you about: Resumes and Cover Letters Networking Skills & Informational Interviews Career Planning & Job Seeking Strategies Interview Skills & Mock Interviews Accepting Offers & Salary Negotiation Book an Appointment Find career opportunities and events On the HireUTexas powered by Handshake platform students can search for jobs, internships, capstones, and experiential opportunities. Students can also connect with employers and alumni, RSVP for events and find all of the Career Office resources. The university has already preloaded your profile and you can access it at any time by logging in with your EID credentials at https://utaustin.joinhandshake.com. If you have any trouble logging in with your EID, please email hireutexas@austin.utexas.edu for assistance. Go to Handshake Workshops We offer a variety of career skills workshops focusing on topics such as resumes, cover letters, career fair preparation, networking, and interviewing skills. Sign up through HireUTexas. Information Sessions & Employer-Led Events At the request of employers, we host information sessions, presentations, and other events such as speed interviewing. See upcoming events and sign up through HireUTexas. Student Resource Center Our Student Resource Center is stocked with great resources on job seeking and career planning. We also have a computer and landline phone which students are welcome to use for virtual and telephone interviews. Contact us to book the room for an interview, or simply stop by to look at available resources. Employers Employers can list their jobs on the university-wide HireUTexas powered by Handshake system. Follow the instructions on screen to create a new account if you don't already have one, and consult the Handshake Help Center if you run into any problems. If you are unable to create an account, please reach out to us at careers@ischool.utexas.edu. Quick links Book an Appointment HireUTexas powered by Handshake UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022