Academics - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving Resources for ... Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Visitors Recruiters UH Home Academics Academics Page contents: Colleges Graduate & Professional Honors Online Programs Student Success Libraries Academic Affairs Pursue Your Interests and Discover Greatness The University of Houston has an outstanding reputation for student success, teaching, research and innovation. Rigorous coursework, hands-on opportunities, leadership positions, and global experiences prepare students for the world. UH has dedicated, award-winning faculty members committed to helping students pursue their path of learning. Programs of study include undergraduate, graduate, doctoral, online and continuing education classes. With nationally ranked education programs, cutting-edge research centers, world-class libraries and state-of-the-art facilities, Cougars have the learning resources they need to excel. Majors & Minors Core Curriculum Academic Calendar How to Enroll Meet with an Advisor Find a Faculty Member Visit the Bookstore View Virtual Tour of Colleges Colleges At the University of Houston we pride ourselves on diversity and excellence across all disciplines. Our campus features internationally recognized faculty in 16 academic colleges and schools and an interdisciplinary Honors College. View Academic Catalogs Expand AllCollapse All Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design A platform of integrated disciplines — Architecture, Interior Architecture, and Industrial Design. 4200 Elgin Street Houston, TX 77204 Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts A college catering to art, music and performance. School of Art Moores School of Music School of Theatre & Dance C. T. Bauer College of Business Houston’s most comprehensive business school, offering a range of degree programs at the undergraduate, graduate and doctoral levels. 4750 Calhoun Road Houston, TX 77204 Accountancy & Taxation Decision & Information Sciences Finance Management Marketing & Entrepreneurship College of Education Preparing graduates to change the world - through teaching, leadership, health promotion, counseling, and research. Our programs exceed national standards for excellence, including accreditation by the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation and the American Psychological Association. 3657 Cullen Blvd. Houston, TX 77204 Curriculum & Instruction Educational Leadership & Policy Studies Psychological, Health, and Learning Sciences Cullen College of Engineering In addition to the traditional degree programs offered in engineering, we have several specialty programs available in the areas of aerospace, materials, and computer and systems engineering. We also have a certificate program in Subsea Engineering, the first program of its kind in the United States. 4722 Calhoun Road Houston, TX 77204 Biomedical Engineering Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Civil & Environmental Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Industrial Engineering Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Conrad N. Hilton College of Global Hospitality Leadership Consistently ranked among the top hospitality programs in the world, our students gain hands on experience in our upscale teaching hotel and restaurants, including a state-of-the-art wine-tasting lab. 4450 University Drive Houston, TX 77204 UH Law Center We are the leading law school in the nation’s fourth-largest city, and our curriculum is among the broadest offered in the Southwest. We are currently ranked No. 50 among the nearly 200 law schools in the United States, and we are one of only eight public law schools that offer multiple ‘Top 10’ programs. 4604 Calhoun Road Houston, TX 77204 College of Liberal Arts & Social Sciences The College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences is a dynamic place full of intellectual curiosity and creative energy. Encompassing creative arts, humanities, and social sciences, the College truly is the intellectual and artistic heart of the university. African American Studies Jack J. Valenti School of Communication Communication Sciences and Disorders Comparative Cultural Studies Economics English Health and Human Performance Hispanic Studies History Modern and Classical Languages Philosophy Political Science Psychology Sociology Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine Established in 2017, the Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine will train physicians who will champion primary care and fulfill the most pressing health care needs in Houston, Texas and the nation. College of Natural Sciences & Mathematics The College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics is committed to excellence in teaching, research, and service in the physical and biological sciences, computer science, and mathematics. Biology & Biochemistry Chemistry Computer Science Earth & Atmospheric Sciences Mathematics Physics College of Nursing Offering flexible programs for those busy nurses who want to obtain a bachelor's degree, those interested in advancing their nursing career with a graduate degree or those students who already have a university degree and want to become a nurse in our Second Degree program. RN to BSN Second Degree BSN Master of Science in Nursing College of Optometry Spanning the clinical, didactic and service missions, we strive for our students to be of the highest caliber and be able to obtain the highest level of skill and education needed to serve their patients and communities upon graduation. 4901 Calhoun Houston, TX 77204 Doctor of Optometry Graduate Program in Physiological Optics/Vision Science (M/S and/or PhD) College of Pharmacy Leading in education, research, service and pharmacist-delivered patient care in a diverse society to develop life-long learners, to improve health outcomes and significantly advance scientific discovery. 3455 Cullen Blvd. Room 141 Houston, TX 77201 Pharmacy Doctorate (Pharm.D.) Ph.D. in Pharmaceutical Health Outcomes & Policy Ph.D. in Pharmaceutical Sciences Pharm.D./MBA Pharmacy Residency and Fellowship Programs Graduate College of Social Work We prepare students to address the complex social problems of our time in order to achieve social, racial, economic and political justice for all. 3511 Cullen Blvd. Room 110HA Houston, TX 77204 MSW Program Field Education Ph.D. Program in Social Work Dual Degree programs Child Welfare Education Project Nonprofit Leadership Alliance College of Technology For more than 75 years, the College of Technology has inspired innovation and uniquely equipped industry leaders with broad engineering and technical knowledge, critical thinking, teamwork and computing skills. 4730 Calhoun Road #300 Houston, TX 77204 Construction Management Engineering Technology Human Development & Consumer Sciences Information and Logistics Technology Hobby School of Public Affairs From a foundation of integrity, the Hobby School of Public Affairs prepares its graduates to make government, business and communities work more effectively by harnessing data and research to improve public policy. Graduate & Professional Education Working alongside dedicated scholars and first-class, award-winning educators, UH graduate students prepare for dynamic careers and discover innovative solutions to society’s toughest challenges. We offer Masters, Doctoral and PhD degrees in our graduate programs. Further your education through our Graduate School. View Graduate Catalog Master’s Degree Programs From accounting to world cultures, the University of Houston offers a wide variety of programs leading to the master’s degree. Doctoral Degree Programs The University of Houston offers a wide array of programs leading to the doctoral degree. Certificate Programs Looking to enhance your professional credentials? Consider one of our excellent graduate-level certificate programs. Dual-Degree Programs A dual degree program allows academically outstanding students to similtaneously pursue two separate degree programs, often saving time and money. The Honors College As an intellectually stimulating learning community and a vibrant, leading presence within the University, the Honors College attracts talented and motivated students and educators to a collegial environment where tradition is honored and possibilities realized. Find out more about The Honors College Online & Special Programs 24Fully Online Graduate Programs 631Online Courses #14Ranked Online Graduate Education Programs The University of Houston offers a wide variety of exceptional educational opportunities. Students can complete nationally ranked degrees via online while experiencing the same rigorous standards as traditional programs with the flexibility to complete them outside of traditional hours. Our qualified instructors provide students with the education and skills needed to continue on to the next chapter of their lives. We also deliver innovative education through certificate courses, workshops, conferences, online courses and custom-designed corporate training. Whether you are considering graduate school, making a career change or wanting to move up the corporate ladder, we have a course that’s built for you. Online Courses Online Graduate Programs Online Undergraduate Programs Professional Development Student Success UH is committed to student success — our programs support first generation, transfer, and traditional college students. We empower you from the moment you are accepted to graduate in four years and stay connected to the history and traditions of the University. Begin with Cub Camp, where you develop strong bonds with classmates, learn the rich history of UH and begin your experience with confidence. Enroll in UH in 4 — by graduating in 4 years, families save time and money because students can enter the workforce or begin graduate studies as quickly as possible. And take advantege of our undergraduate success programs. Cub Camp Cub Camp creates a fun, laid-back environment where you will actively participate over a three-day stay developing strong academic and leadership skills making the transition to college life more comfortable. Provost Summer Read The Provost Summer Read Program is built around a common book that is read by all first year students. You’ll engage with faculty early and develop a sense of community with your peers. UH in 4 The UH in 4 program is a partnership between the University and students to support graduation within four years. The program provides a comprehensive plan to help students navigate their four-year college experience. Undergraduate Student Success Center The Undergraduate Student Success Center helps transition students to a good fit major, offers tutoring and learning skills workshops, pre-professional and career advising, and supports first-generation and transfer college students. Libraries The University of Houston Libraries advances student success, knowledge creation and preservation, and globally competitive research. The Libraries system comprises the MD Anderson Library (the main campus library), the William R. Jenkins Architecture and Art Library, the Weston A. Pettey Optometry Library and the Music Library, providing access to over 3.2 million volumes. Resources and services offered at the library include the following: Study Areas MD Anderson Library offers offers over 117,000 square feet of space designed for productivity, creativity and collaboration. Academic Research Center A computing facility focused on research and study needs. Learning Commons Provides tools for high-end multimedia and collaborative projects and is home to the Hamill Foundation Multimedia Studio and instructor-led technology training in a variety of topics UH Digital Library An online space for the discovery of eclectic digital resources. Special Collections Preserves and provides access to rare and unique materials. Academic Affairs The Office of the Provost houses the Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost responsible for student access and success. The Office of the Provost initiates and oversees a broad range of programs which benefit students throughout the University of Houston and the community, including undergraduate, graduate, continuing and distance education programs, as well as all academic programs and policies. Office of the Provost Course Syllabi and Faculty CVs Learning Abroad International Student and Scholar Services Writing Center Student Resources Testing Services “I wanted to choose text that would pique the interest of the people who view it. The issues that are discussed within the text have to do with relationships, and I feel many students can relate to that. I also hope students will interact with each other when translating some of the languages they are unfamiliar with.” ~Jim Sanborn University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies