Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Programs and Policies » Learning Communities » Current Peer Leader Coordinators Set Navigation title in component Academic Coaching Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Current Peer Leader Coordinators Bailey Kolb Pronouns: she/her/hers Bailey (she/her/hers) is a third-year Biological Sciences major with a certificate in Medical Humanities. She plans to attend Pharmacy school to obtain her PharmD. Bailey’s goal is to provide exceptional, patient-centered care to her future patients within the pharmacy. Bailey was born and raised here in Cincinnati! This will be her second year working in the Learning Commons. Bailey started off in the department as a Peer Leader, and this will be her first year as a Coordinator. She is excited to continue to challenge herself and her coworkers on the mission to provide an amazing experience for first year students here at UC. Darby Holman Pronouns: she/her/hers Darby is a fourth year Biology major with minors in Chemistry and Psychology. After graduation in the spring, she hopes to attend Genetic Counseling School while also getting her master's in Public Health. Although this is Darby’s first year as a PLC, she has served as a Peer Leader for two years previously and was in an Learning Community herself her first year. Darby loves being involved in the Learning Commons, where she is also a Supplemental Instructor for Organic Chemistry. Outside of this she is also a Teaching Assistant for her favorite class, The Music of the Beatles. She is super excited to be working with the other PLC’s this year and making more connections within the Learning Commons! In her free time, you can probably find Darby watching Love Island, playing with her cats, or baking. She’s also training for a half marathon and trying to learn Spanish before going abroad next summer! Grant James Pronouns: he/him/his Grant is a fourth-year Neurobiology major on a pre-med track with a minor in communications. After graduating, he hopes to attend medical school to become a family medicine physician. This is Grant’s second year within the Learning Commons, where he has spent two years as a Peer Leader and will now be taking on the role of a Peer Leader Coordinator. Grant has loved helping first-year students reach their full potential and enjoy their first year of college. When not attending classes and helping out in the Learning Commons, Grant is actively involved in working at the Cincy Smiles dental clinic, being the president of the PPAC Ambassadors, attending HealthCats meetings, and participating in various intramural sports. In his free time, Grant loves running, going to the gym, traveling to the beach, attending concerts, cheering on the Cincinnati Reds and Bengals, and binge-watching shows on Netflix. He is very excited to join the Coordinator team and help others and himself reach their full potential. Josh Eads Pronouns: he/him/his Josh is a fourth year Health Sciences major returning for his second year as a Peer Leader Coordinator after serving as a Peer Leader for one year. Josh grew up in the Cincinnati area, living in Ross. Post graduation, Josh plans to attend UC to get his Master’s in Nursing and later become a Nurse Practitioner. Outside of school, Josh loves to spend time outside, hike, go to the lake, play soccer, and go watch the Reds. During his second year as a PLC, Josh hopes to continue to grow closer with everyone in the PL/PF program. He’s excited to watch those around him grow and succeed in their roles. Strengths: Futuristic, Adaptability, Relator, Positivity, Competition Noemi Leibman Pronouns: she/her/hers Noemi Leibman is a fourth-year Political Science, English, and International Affairs triple major with a minor in Communications and a Legal Studies Certificate. After graduation, she hopes to go to law school and work as a public defender. Noemi has loved working for the Learning Commons as a Peer Leader and Peer Facilitator Coordinator and is so excited for her second year as a Peer Leader Coordinator. Noemi is also involved in economics research on campus and is the Vice President of the UC College Democrats. In her free time, she enjoys reading, watching movies at the Esquire, and getting takeout at Thai Express. Strengths: Discipline, Achiever, Focus, Competition, Communication Sophie Vincenti Pronouns: she/her/hers Sophie Vincenti is a fourth-year Economics major with a minor in Business Analytics. After graduation, she plans on attending law school while also earning an MBA. This is Sophie’s third year with the Learning Commons. She has loved working as a Peer Leader for the past two years and is extremely excited to be starting her final year as a Peer Leader Coordinator. She has also served as a TA for Business Foundations and is a member of Lindner Women in Business. In her free time, Sophie loves to travel, play tennis with friends, read a book, or binge a crime documentary on Netflix. She is excited to grow as a mentor and a leader, as well as build meaningful friendships with all of her peers in the Learning Commons. Tanner Charette Pronouns: he/him/his Tanner Charette is a fourth year Health Sciences Major with a plan to attend Medical School in hopes to work with immigrant populations. He is from Mansfield, Ohio and has been a Peer Leader for a year and a half. At UC, Tanner is also President of the College of Allied Health Sciences Tribunal and loves partaking in intramurals (although his intramural record is 8-20). Outside of UC, he volunteers every summer at a Military Kids Camp on Kelley’s Island, and also works at Cincinnati Children’s Hospital in a liver research lab. He loves spending time with family and friends and enjoy anything related to sports. Tanner is excited to get to meet all the current and new PL’s and looks forward to growing new friendships while in this role. Tyler Benson Pronouns: he/him/his Tyler is a third-year Political Science and Law and Society double-major with a minor in English. After graduation, he hopes to attend law school with the intentions of becoming a civil rights advocate. Throughout his time at UC, Tyler has been continually involved with the College of Arts & Sciences Student Ambassador program and Student Government, along with interning at the Ohio Innocence Project. Outside of school, he loves to volunteer with animal shelters, read up on the political gossip, and check out local coffee shops. This is Tyler’s second year within the Learning Commons, having spent one year as both a Peer Facilitator and a Peer Leader, and is now joining as a Peer Facilitator Coordinator. He was initially drawn to the Learning Commons for the sense of community and supportive atmosphere. He is super excited to work with new and existing Peer Facilitators, Peer Leaders, and the entire Coordinator team to build new friendships and strengthen existing ones. Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top