Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Master of Public Health Home About The Curriculum The Internship The Thesis Dual Degrees MPH/MPA Five-Year Undergraduate/MPH Five-Year MD/MPH Brown-Tougaloo Partnership Health Equity Scholars Site Navigation Home About Mission & Values People Competencies MPH Student Handbook (PDF) The Curriculum Interdisciplinary Concentration Addictions Concentration Epidemiology Concentration Global Health Concentration Health Behavior Concentration Health Services Concentration Maternal and Child Health Concentration Mindfulness Concentration The Internship The Thesis Dual Degrees MPH/MPA Five-Year Undergraduate/MPH UG/MPH Program Requirements Sample class schedule for UG/MPH Five-Year MD/MPH Brown-Tougaloo Partnership Health Equity Scholars The Brown-Tougaloo Public Health Partnership In 1964, Brown University and Tougaloo College developed a cooperative agreement designed to enrich both campuses academically, financially and culturally. The Brown-Tougaloo Cooperative Exchange emerged out of the turbulent Civil Rights Movement. Fifty years later, the partnership continues to evolve and thrive, remaining a significant asset to both schools. Over 760 students and faculty have participated in the Brown-Tougaloo program, creating a shared history that has enriched educational experiences on both campuses. Overview Brown-Tougaloo Partnership in Public Health Education provides important education opportunities for students. The program allows Tougaloo students to apply early, so that they can take advantage of the unique educational opportunities at both Tougaloo and Brown, thereby getting the best of what both institutions have to offer. In the Brown-Tougaloo Partnership in Public Health Education students study at both Tougaloo College and Brown University, ultimately earning a bachelor’s degree from Tougaloo and a Master of Public Health (MPH) degree from Brown. The program is five or six years in length, depending on the individual needs and educational path of the students. Students are officially enrolled as undergraduates at Tougaloo College for the first four years of the program and are enrolled as Brown graduate students for year five and if necessary year six. However, students have the opportunity to study at both institutions throughout the five or six years of the program. As a result of the MPH Program’s 13 course and thesis requirement, it is not feasible to finish the MPH in only one year of residence at Brown. Students who wish to complete the program in five years have to spend substantial time studying at Brown during their undergraduate years. In general, to complete the program in five years, students would spend two semesters and one summer at Brown during their first four years of college. Requirements The Brown-Tougaloo Partnership in Public Health Education is based on three requirements: Students complete all undergraduate degree requirements for Tougaloo College. This includes completing all course requirements within the student’s undergraduate major. In addition to the general undergraduate requirements, some majors will have requirements specific to students participating in the program. Students complete the requirements of the Jackson Heart Study Scholars Program or at a minimum must complete the following four courses at Tougaloo College, earning a grade of at least B in each: Introduction to Public Health and Epidemiology Biostatistics Research Methods in Public Health and Epidemiology Ethics, Medicine and Technology Students complete all requirements of the Brown MPH Program Application to the Program Tougaloo College students are eligible to apply for the Brown-Tougaloo Partnership in Public Health Education in their fourth semester if they have completed or will complete the following courses by the end of the fourth semester, maintaining a B average or better in their coursework: Introduction to Public Health and Epidemiology Biostatistics Research Methods in Public Health and Epidemiology Ethics, Medicine and Technology Students who have not applied in the fourth semester are eligible to apply for the Brown-Tougaloo Partnership in Public Health Education in their sixth semester if they have completed or will complete the following courses by the end of the sixth semester, maintaining a B or better average, with an overall pattern of academic excellence: Introduction to Public Health and Epidemiology Biostatistics Research Methods in Public Health and Epidemiology Ethics, Medicine and Technology Applications to the MPH Program must be submitted in either the fourth or sixth semester (see prerequisites above) and are due by January 15. Applicants are strongly encouraged to apply early. If the applicant is in the process of completing courses required for eligibility described above, the admissions decision will be postponed until the end of the semester so that the grades from those courses can be reviewed. Applications will be completed online through the SOPHAS Express Brown-Tougaloo Undergraduate-MPH application. SOPHAS Express Login In addition to the online application, the following materials are required: Official transcripts for all undergraduate or graduate academic work and GPA Three letters of recommendation, at least one of which is from a core JHSUTC faculty A personal statement of understanding of public health and commitment to pursuing a career in public health.The statement should explain the relevance of the applicant's education and/or experience to pursuing a career in public health. In addition, applicants should indicate their interest in the Health Equity Scholars program in their “Statement of Purpose” and in the “Research Interest” question located in the “Program Materials” section of the application. NOTE: applicants to the Brown-Tougaloo Partnership in Public Health Education are NOT required to submit GRE scores Applications for the Brown-Tougaloo Partnership in Public Health Education will be reviewed by the standing MPH Admissions Committee, which is composed of public health faculty and other professionals with experience in public health research and practice. In addition, at least one core JHSUTC faculty will provide input and recommendations on all applications. Applicants will be assessed on their academic performance as well as evidence of a commitment to public health through previous course work, independent study, employment or volunteer experience. After admission to the Brown-Tougaloo Partnership in Public Health Education, students must maintain high academic performance in order to continue in the program. This includes maintaining at least a B average, being in good academic standing at Tougaloo College and meeting deadlines for staying on track to complete all requirements within the five or six year time period. Brown University–Tougaloo College Partnership (BTP) Learn more about the Brown University–Tougaloo College Partnership Learn More Dual Degrees MPH/MPA Five-Year Undergraduate/MPH Five-Year MD/MPH Brown-Tougaloo Partnership Admissions Admissions Calendar Request Information Tuition & Funding Career Outcomes Career Advising Master of Public Health (MPH) Master of Public Health (MPH) Brown University 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top