Skip Navigation Tulsa OU Homepage Search OU The University of Oklahoma Future Students & Residents Current Students Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Community Engagement Career Opportunities The University is proactively monitoring COVID-19. Stay updated with the latest information and what’s being done to protect the OU community. Learn More Skip Side Navigation Home About OU-Tulsa Degrees & Colleges Centers and Institutes Research Schusterman Library OU-TU School of Community Medicine Graduate Medical Education OU Physicians-Tulsa News Contact Us Marketing & Communications Apply to OU-Tulsa Visit Our Campus Support OU-Tulsa HIPAA Campuses: OU-Tulsa OU Norman OU HSC Impacting the Community Together at OU-Tulsa Learning That Touches Lives With our interdisciplinary learning environment and more than 500 community collaborations, OU-Tulsa gives professors and students real-world opportunities to work together to impact lives — including their own. OU-Tulsa brings more than 30 degree programs, medical training and life-changing health care to our community. OU-TU School of Community Medicine The OU-TU School of Community Medicine focuses on improving the health and health care of the entire community through community-based medical education, eight residency programs and five fellowships. Schusterman Library The Schusterman Library supports OU-Tulsa's academic community with collaboration, study space and information experts OU Physicians OU Physicians is one of northeast Oklahoma’s largest and best medical practice groups, conducting more than 250,000 patient visits a year. To schedule a campus tour, email tulsainfo@ou.edu or call: 918-660-3318. I Will at OU-Tulsa At OU-Tulsa, our students, researchers, faculty and staff are committed to making Tulsa a better place for all. Learn what you can do at OU-Tulsa here. Facebook Twitter Tweets by @OUTulsa OU-Tulsa Calendar See more events OU - Tulsa Schusterman Center 4502 E. 41st Street Tulsa, OK 74135 918-660-3000 Accessibility Sustainability HIPAA OU Job Search Policies Legal Notices Copyright Resources & Offices OU Report It! OU-Tulsa Social Media facebook twitter youtube more Updated 1/10/2022 by OU - Tulsa Schusterman Center: pappas@ou.edu