COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Aerospace Engineering, Master's Master'sAerospace Engineering All Programs College of Engineering Aerospace Engineering The Master of Science (MS) in Aerospace Engineering program offers advanced study in several specializations to help you advance your career. You’ll have access to some of the best aerospace facilities in the country—and the chance to work and research with faculty and industry professionals on campus and throughout Wichita, the world’s “Air Capital.” Learn how aerospace engineering is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application WSU aerospace engineering students gain experience at Airbus, one of the world's leading aerospace companies, right on campus. Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Be admitted to the WSU Graduate School Admission in good standing – Have a minimum GPA of 3.0 during the last two years or 60 credit hours, OR Admission on probation – Have a minimum GPA of 2.75 during the last two years or 60 credit hours Admission requirements Inside the Program Successful NASA career started at Wichita State When he was a high school student considering where to go to college, Alex Kanelakos looked for the best opportunity to get an education that provided real, hands-on work in his field. He chose WSU when he learned about its relationship with NASA. To say it worked out well for him is an understatement. After graduating in 2007, Alex immediately got a job at NASA. He now carries one of the heaviest responsibilities at mission control: training space station crew members for space walks in giant swimming pools, then monitoring them in space. Curriculum The master’s degree program offers four specializations. Aerodynamics and fluid mechanics Structures and solid mechanics Flight dynamics and control Multidisciplinary analysis and design To graduate, you must also complete one of three options: a thesis, directed project or additional coursework. View the curriculum Careers Whether you’re pursuing a promotion or preparing for a Ph.D., WSU’s vast industry connections, research opportunities and unmatched facilities create an environment for our aerospace students to gain the expertise that leads to dream careers with employers like: Boeing (space, commercial and military) Cessna/Textron Aviation Spirit AeroSystems NASA and SpaceX NASCAR U.S. Military Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Advanced Composite Materials (Graduate Certificate) Industrial Engineering (Master's) Mechanical Engineering (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©