Skip to main content Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Close Yale School of Art 1156 Chapel Street, POB 208339 New Haven, Connecticut, 06520-8339 Pause animations Play animations Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Pause animations Play animations This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Larissa Hall Background changed by: Unknown Yale School of Art seeks Director / Tenure-Track Faculty Member in Graphic Design December 20, 2021 The Yale School of Art invites applications worldwide for a tenured or tenure-track faculty appointment in the area of Graphic Design to begin July 1, 2022. The selected candidate will also assume the Directorship of the program for a designated period of time. The school has the most diverse student body among Yale’s professional schools, and the Graphic Design area of study has consistently been the most international program within the School of Art for decades. Applicants must hold an MFA or equivalent degree preferably in the field of graphic design, have a robust and individuated professional practice with a record of compelling contributions to the discipline, and a minimum of 5 years of college-level teaching experience, with experience teaching graduate students preferred. We seek a designer with a practice distinguished by formal and critical inquiry, who is technologically forward-thinking, has the ability to foster exchange across disciplines, and a broad knowledge of graphic design’s multivalent histories. The successful candidate should have strategic leadership skills, a collaborative approach to management, and a desire to innovate the Graphic Design area of study within the School of Art and wider university. A record of expanding and diversifying access to educational opportunities for historically underrepresented and marginalized communities is central to this goal and a crucial criteria for consideration. A fully engaged presence on campus is required in order to actively participate in the University and New Haven communities. The position requires the candidate to remain active professionally while teaching in a demanding academic environment. In addition to teaching, the successful candidate will advise graduate and undergraduate students, oversee master’s theses, organize and oversee critiques and reviews, mentor students, serve on School and University committees, and actively contribute to and participate in the School’s vibrant co-curricular programming. Rank at the time of hire – as either associate or (full) professor – will depend on the appointee’s qualifications. To apply, submit a letter of interest, a curriculum vitae with relevant professional and teaching experience, and names and contact info of three references, at least one sample syllabus for a graphic design course, and 20 images of recent work online at http://apply.interfolio.com/100557. Review of applications begins March 1, 2022. Yale University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity employer. Yale values diversity among its students, staff, and faculty and strongly encourages applications from underrepresented minorities, women, persons with disabilities, and protected veterans. Editor details Last edited by: Larissa Hall Edit access: Everybody SEARCH COMMITTEE: Julian Bittiner, Senior Critic- Graphic Design; Acting Co-Director of Graduate Studies in Graphic Design Spring 2022 Gregory Crewdson, Committee Chair; Professor and Director of Graduate Studies in Photography Keller Easterling, Enid Storm Dwyer Professor of Architecture at the Yale School of Architecture Manuel Miranda, Senior Critic- Graphic Design Meleko Mokgosi, Associate Professor, Co-Director of Graduate Studies in Painting and Printmaking Aki Sasamoto, Assistant Professor, Director of Graduate Studies in Sculpture Susan Sellers, Senior Critic- Graphic Design; Acting Co-Director of Graduate Studies in Graphic Design Spring 2022 Editor details Last edited by: Larissa Hall Edit access: Everybody All Yale School of Art news >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody © 2022 Support the School Visiting Instagram Facebook YouTube Contact Sitemap Accessibility at Yale This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Larissa Hall Background changed by: Unknown