Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Faculty/Staff Resources Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Prospective Students Current Students Research About Partner News Undergraduate Students Visit Us! PLEASE NOTE: Due to COVID-19, Clemson University on-campus events may be limited. See below for virtual ways to connect with us! There are a number of opportunities for prospective undergraduate students to visit Clemson, and we hope to see you soon. The College of Science offers multiple opportunities for prospective students to explore campus and learn about Clemson University’s cutting-edge degree programs. You can also preview any of our majors and request more information online. Contact the Visitors Center to schedule a campus tour and take your first step toward the admissions process. Find Out More About SCIENCE Departments and Majors LEARN MORE Learn More The College of Science offers multiple opportunities for prospective students to explore campus and learn about Clemson University’s cutting-edge degree programs. You can also preview any of our majors and request more information online. Contact the Visitors Center to schedule a campus tour and take your first step toward the admissions process. During College of Science open house events, meet with college and departmental representatives to learn about curriculum options, AP/IB/dual credit, study abroad and research opportunities, and to ask questions about your intended major. Meet with Clemson RISE staff to learn about our living learning community for STEM students. Upcoming Spring 2022 Open House Events Register for Virtual Events Health Professions Advising Students interested in the Pre-professional Health Studies (non-degree) program are highly encouraged to choose a listed major from the open house schedule. Those interested in pursuing a career in a medical-related field are encouraged to attend a Health Professions Advising Interest Session. — PLEASE NOTE — Due to COVID-19, many Clemson University on-campus events have been suspended until further notice. However, SCIENCE is offering virtual open houses to interact with prospective students and families. Contact us for further information. Explore Our College Learn more about what’s offered in the College of Science — and the experiences undergraduates can expect — by exploring our undergraduate viewbook. Click on the cover image below to view the file in an interactive flipbook format. Upcoming Events For more information about upcoming events, contact the College of Science Center for Student Services at ScienceInfo@clemson.edu. Contact Us Sharetta Bufford Assistant Director, Recruitment and Inclusive Excellence ✉ ScienceInfo@clemson.edu ☏ 864-656-3296 Sharetta Bufford is a resource for prospective students as they’re discovering the opportunities within the College of Science. Bufford coordinates recruiting events for the College, manages the Student Ambassador and Peer Mentoring programs, and serves as the college liasion for the Clemson RISE and Connections living-learning communities. Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Student Services Global Engagement Departments Biological Sciences Chemistry Genetics and Biochemistry School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences Physics and Astronomy Centers and Institutes Clemson Center for Human Genetics Clemson Eukaryotic Pathogens Innovation Center Center for Excellence in Math and Science Education Life Sciences Outreach Center Statistics and Mathematics Consulting Center Give to the College Like Us on Facebook Copyright © 2019 Clemson University College of Science | 118 Long Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3015 | Email Us