Skip to main content University of Washington Research Contact Us About Office of Research Announcements UW Home Quick Links MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Plan/Propose Overview Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Recruit Team Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Submit Proposal Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Setup Setup Overview Sponsor Requirements Facilities and Resources Financials Subawards Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Records and Documentation Methods Collaborations Data Collection Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Manage Manage Overview Financials Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Facilities and Resources Collect Data Analyze Data Subawards Award Changes Reporting Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Closeout Closeout Overview Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Resources Support Offices Human Subjects Division Office of Animal Welfare Office of Research Central Office of Research Information Services Office of Sponsored Programs Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory Washington National Primate Research Center Browse Forms and Templates Policies, Procedures and Guidance Announcements Glossary FAQs Popular Resources Funding Opportunities Grants Information Memorandum (GIMs) Institutional Facts and Rates Research Stats & Rankings New to UW Research UWFT for the Research Community Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Collaboration Connect to Expertise Find Research Expertise Research Centers and Institutes Resources for Collaboration Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources Establish a Research Center or Institute Shared Research Facilities and Resources Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Compliance Compliance Overview Compliance Training Training Overview Research Training Overview Collaborative for Research Education Required Research Training Research Administration Learning HSD Training and Education MyResearch Training Transcript Home UW Research MyResearch Project Lifecycle Closeout Reporting UW Research Menu MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Setup Manage Closeout Resources Collaboration Compliance Training Reporting Close Menu Home Closeout Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention Review various closeout reporting requirements for the end of an award and closeout of research projects. Contents OSP Closeout Notifications for Federal Awards Internal UW Reports Human Subjects Research External Sponsor Reporting Final Technical/Scientific (Performance/Progress) Invention Statement Final Financial Report External – Other Reporting Unless the sponsor grants an extension, submit all final performance documentation no later than 90 days following the project end date. Some due dates may differ; check sponsor requirements in your award. OSP Closeout Notifications for Federal Awards OSP notifies the PI and department about a week before the end date of a federal award, to inform award is ending and to detail closeout responsibilities. If needed, the PI may request a budget extension by completing the budget Extension Request. If OSP is aware that final reporting has become delinquent, OSP will escalate to the Chair and Dean. Contact closeout@uw.edu with questions. Review the End of Award Checklist Internal- UW Reports Final reporting for: Human Subjects: Close an IRB application Innovation Reporting: If innovations were made, fill out the eROI form and submit to CoMotion. Equipment Reporting Financial Conflict of Interest (FCOI) GIM 10: All reporting complete as required under Management Plan Office of Animal Welfare (OAW) Faculty Effort Certification(s) Reporting (FECs) complete Grant and Contract Certification (GCCR) reporting complete (Non-faculty effort) Cost share requirements met & posted in UW systems Human Subjects Research The completion of your non-exempt human subjects research must be reported in a timely manner to the IRB(s) that reviewed and approved your research. “Completion” is defined as: All subjects have completed all study-related interventions and procedures, including any follow-up. You have obtained all private identifiable data and/or specimens from all subjects. You have completed the analysis of all private identifiable data and specimens, as described in your IRB application. To close a UW IRB application: If your IRB application is still paper-based: Complete the Paper Status Report form and mail to HSD. If your IRB application is in Zipline (the UW’s web-based IRB application system): Complete the Zipline Status Report form and upload it to Zipline. See this Guidance for a more detailed description, including the three most common closure mistakes made by researchers. External – Sponsor Reporting Most sponsors require these final reports: Final Technical/Scientific (progress) Invention Statement Final Financial Report If there was equipment purchased you may also need to complete Final Equipment Inventory Reporting. Check your award for specialized final reporting requirements, such as a list of publications, property report or security report. Federal Contracts OSP signs and submits the completed federal contract forms. Examples of required federal contract closeout forms: All Work Completed Assurance/Deliverables Met Contractor’s Certification Concerning Royalties, Patents, and Copyrights Property Clearance Report Release of Claims and Final Invoice Technical/Scientific (Performance/Progress report) In all cases: Review your award for specific closeout requirements and deadlines. Submit all required reports following sponsor instructions. Forward a copy along with proof of submission to closeout@uw.edu. Federal Sponsor Final Technical/Progress Report Submission Steps: Sponsor Where to Submit PI Guidance NIH eRA Commons Initiate an Interim or Final RPPR via eRACommons. Use plain language when filling out the Project Outcomes. NIH will review & approve this section before it will be made publicly available through the NIH RePORTER. When applicable use Human Subjects System (HSS). Complete HSS records & mark ‘Ready for Submission’ If the Submit button is active for the PI, PI submits the HSS record If the Submit button is not active for the PI, twice a week (Tues & Thurs) OSP will submit all HSS records ‘Ready for Submission’. Send special requests for HSS submission to osp@uw.edu. Once HSS records have been submitted, you should see the HSS data within the RPPR. Do not submit the RPPR until after HSS updates appear within the RPPR. Upon completion, notify closeout@uw.edu and attach a copy of the RPPR confirming submission. If the Project Outcomes of an I-RPPR/F-RPPR didn’t use plain language, shared proprietary information, or included Personally Identifiable Information (PII), NIH will request a revised Project Outcomes. To complete the request, navigate to the award in the Commons. Select IRAM/FRAM from additional actions. Enter revised Project Outcomes in the IRAM/FRAM Project Outcomes text box. Do not upload it as an attachment. Learn more about the NIH RPPR: IRAM and FRAM HRSA HRSA Electronic Handbook HRSA: Submit all progress reports, including the final report, via the HRSA Electronic Handbook AHRQ grantfpr@ahrq.gov Review the template and further instructions from AHRQ’s Post Award Management site. Submit the final report via email to grantfpr@ahrq.gov. CDC Grants Management Officer Review closeout guidance from CDC and submit the final report to the Grants Management Officer. CDC closeout description. SAMHSA grant.closeout@samhsa.hhs.gov Follow the terms of your award and review: Reporting requirements Grant Closeout Instructions. NSF Research.gov Log into Research.gov and select “Awards and Reporting”. DOE DOE Energy Link System Complete and submit the final report electronically via DOE Energy Link System. Upload the report in PDF format. Forward submission confirmation and Office of Scientific and Technical Information (OSTI) ID to closeout@uw.edu DoD Review the terms in your award. Forward to the Office of Naval Research (ONR). Is the Office of Naval Research (ONR) Seattle Regional office administering your grant or contract for DoD? Forward a copy of all closeout forms and documentation to ONR. Possible requirements: SF 298 Report Documentation Form, summarizes award information, includes the abstract and any distribution limitations, When the DFARS Clause 252.246-7000 is included in the contract use DD Form 250, Material Inspection & Receiving Report. NASA NSSCcloseout@mail.nasa.gov Submit via email to the NASA Shared Center: NSSCcloseout@mail.nasa.gov DOeD G5 System ED 524B report cover sheet is required with final technical report submission and needs: Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA) concurrence on Budget Expenditures section OSP sign-off/approval of the report after GCA concurrence PI Submits via the G5 System. NOAA NOAA Grants Online Final Invention Statement The PI must report all innovations to CoMotion, using a Record of Innovation Form (ROI). PIs must also report all subject inventions to the sponsor on a final invention statement. No Inventions? PI still submits an invention statement confirming “no inventions”. Agencies generally require institutional signature or submission in sponsor systems for both positive and negative invention statements. Contact closeout@uw.edu. Federal Sponsor Final Invention Statement Submission Steps Sponsor Where to Submit PI Guidance AHRQ grantfpr@ahrq.hhs.gov Submit pdf of Form HH568 to grantfpr@ahrq.hhs.gov CDC Grants Management Officer Review closeout guidance from CDC and submit the final report to the Grants Management Officer. CDC closeout description. NIH eRA Commons Submit Form HH568 via eRACommons. Click the Status tab at top of the screen and select “Requires Closeout” in Action column for the award. On closeout status screen, click Process Final Invention Statement Complete form and Save Contact closeout@uw.edu for SO submission NSF NSF does not have a standard Final Invention Statement. CoMotion reviews your ROI and submits invention reports via iEdison, as necessary. DOE Fill out Patent Certifications Form DOE F2050-11 Check your award documents for submission requirements. DoD Fill out Form DD882. Check your award documents for submission requirements. NASA Disclosure of Invention and New Technology (Including Software): Fill out NF1679 or download the PDF or Word version Final Financial Report For Federal Awards, the Federal Financial Report (FFR) is prepared & submitted to the Sponsor by Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA). The form and type of submission are outlined by the sponsor per the terms and conditions of the award. The completed report is attached and a notification is sent to the PI and Fiscal staff through GrantTracker. Many other non-federal sponsors also require a final financial report. Review the terms and conditions of your award. External – Other Reporting Clinicaltrials.gov PI/research team submits summary results to clinicaltrials.gov within one year of primary completion of the clinical trial. Review Dissemination of Results for more information. FCOI reporting to DHHS Office of Research submits FCOI management plans to sponsors and if PHS-Investigator, the FCOI information on its website. iEdison Reporting CoMotion reports innovations generated on a federally funded project. Forms, Tools, and Resources Zipline ClinicalTrials.gov Data Management Resources at UW CoMotion: Technology Transfer Office CoMotion: Record of Innovation eForm Equipment Inventory: Closeout Reporting MAA: Faculty Effort Certification (FEC) End of Award Request Form Dissemination of Results Office of Sponsored Programs MAA: Grant & Contract Certification Report (GCCR) GCA: Cost Share NIH: RPPR FAQs End of Award / Budget Review Checklist Policy, Regulation, and Guidance GIM 23 – Sponsored Program Costing Policy GIM 39 – Closeout of Sponsored Programs APS 61.1 Equipment Inventory Management Requirements for PHS-funded Investigators NIH: Project Outcomes from Interim and Final RPPRs in RePORTER NIH: Human Subjects System (HSS) Announcements October 30, 2020 Sponsor Requirements NIH: New Automated Trainee Diversity Report Required with RPPRs for Specified Grants July 26, 2019 NIH: Basic Experimental Studies with Humans (BESH) ClinicalTrials.gov Reporting Requirement Delayed January 11, 2011 NSF Requirement for a Data Management Plan All Announcements Home Closeout Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention University of Washington Office of Research Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools OR Support Offices Human Subjects Division (HSD) Office of Animal Welfare (OAW) Office of Research (OR) Office of Research Information Services (ORIS) Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) OR Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory (APL-UW) WA National Primate Research Center (WaNPRC) Research Partner Offices CoMotion Corporate and Foundation Relations (CFR) Enivronmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA) Institute of Translational Health Sciences (ITHS) Management Accounting and Analysis (MAA) Post Award Fiscal Compliance (PAFC) Collaboration Research Expertise Centers and Institutes Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources About Research Fact Sheet Research Annual Report Stats and Rankings Honors and Awards Office of Research Contact Us Manage Subscriptions Gerberding Hall G80 Box 351202 Seattle, WA 98195 Accessibility Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA