Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Criminal Justice (BS) – A.S. to B.S. Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Criminal Justice In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. A.S. to B.S. Track (Completion program only for individuals who have a statewide articulated A.S. from a Florida College System institution) Admission Requirements Completion of a Statewide Articulated A.S. in Criminal Justice from a Florida College System institution which is composed of 64 hours of course work, including at least 18 hours of transferable general education courses. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. The courses designated in section 1 below may be taken at a Florida College System institution. Students must earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better in each core course Students must earn a minimum overall GPA of 2.0 in all courses used to satisfy the restricted electives. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Chief Jailer Commanding Officer Homicide Squad Correctional Officer Sergeant Correctional Supervisor Corrections Sergeant Criminal Justice Professor Criminology Professor Detective Lieutenant Detective Supervisor Meteorological Aide Penology Professor Police Lieutenant Polygraph Examiner Prison Guard Supervisor Traffic Lieutenant Traffic Sergeant Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Criminal Justice (BS) - A.S. to B.S. University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × A.S. to B.S. Track (Completion program only for individuals who have a statewide articulated A.S. from a Florida College System institution) Admission Requirements Completion of a Statewide Articulated A.S. in Criminal Justice from a Florida College System institution which is composed of 64 hours of course work, including at least 18 hours of transferable general education courses. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. The courses designated in section 1 below may be taken at a Florida College System institution. Students must earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better in each core course Students must earn a minimum overall GPA of 2.0 in all courses used to satisfy the restricted electives. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 30 Total Credits Complete the following: CJE3001 - Careers in Criminal Justice (4) CCJ3024 - Criminal Justice System (3) CCJ3014 - Crime in America (3) CCJ4701 - Research Methods in Criminal Justice (4) CCJ4746 - Data Analysis for Criminal Justice (4) CJL3510 - Prosecution and Adjudication (3) CJC3010 - Corrections and Penology (3) CJE4014 - Police and Society (3) CCJ4054 - Capstone: Criminal Justice Ethics (3) Restricted Electives 30 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 21 credits from the following types of courses: 21 hours of upper criminal justice course work. Seniors can satisfy up to six hours of this requirement with internship and up to six hours with directed independent study; however, the combination of these non-class options shall not exceed nine hours. Program standards must be met to be eligible for either internship or independent study credit. Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: Supporting courses to be selected with and approved by the student's advisor. These courses may vary from student to student depending upon individual needs or objectives, but include selected courses from public administration, legal studies, sociology, statistics, and psychology. Grand Total Credits: 60 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida