Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Center for Educational Innovation Our mission is to promote, model, support, and celebrate evidence-based educational excellence through inspiration, integration, and innovation. Lecture-Hall2-181108-F-GD464-0013 Pilot-Sim-161220-F-GD464-0008 NFO-Lecture-Hall-MAK5096 VR-One-850_5940 SOTL-2017-10-20-13.13.26 Laser-130402-F-JM997-256 SOTL-171020-f-ot300-0200_38043105232_o PTN-CadetCapstones EIW-Hughes-170315-F-GD464-0097 In This Section: About Us Services Programs Recognitions UPCOMING EVENTS Each year, the Center for Educational Innovation (CEI) provides events to facilitate outstanding teaching and learning. New Faculty Orientation: Although there is a programmatic component to the New Faculty Orientation, which includes a series of workshops, panels, and presentations; a major event that starts the iteration of events occurs in July, where over 100 new faculty members attend a week-long array of workshops and trainings prior to the start of the Fall semester. An abbreviated version of the event occurs in early January for those faculty who arrive for the Spring semester only. SoTL Forum: This teaching and learning conference each fall semester showcases the Academy Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (SoTL) research, and includes an invited keynote address and workshop as well as a variety of other sessions. Audience-voted poster awards are announced at the end of the day for “Most Innovative Project” and “Project Most Likely to Impact USAFA”. Education Innovation Week: Each Spring semester, CEI hosts a series of showcases of innovative practices in the classrooms at the Academy, through a combination of panels, posters, and interactive talks by Academy leaders. Resources FACULTY SUPPORT CEI provides a large repository of resources that have been previewed and vetted by CEI staff. Those who want to quickly identify high value focused information on a broad array of pedagogical issues can find resources by joining the Friend of CEI in Microsoft Teams. Academic Assessment: Practice evidence-based improvement in and analysis of student learning Educational Technology: Effectively use technology to deliver learning experiences Faculty Development: Acquire a broad repertoire of evidence-based, learning-centered teaching practices Instructional Design: Making your course and lesson the best possible learning-centered events Scholarship of Teaching and Learning: Researching and publishing about teaching and learning Center for Educational Innovation Staff Contact Us DF_ALL@afacademy.af.edu ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.