Skip to Content Menu Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Close Main menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Secondary Menu Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Mobile menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Your Right to Know You Have a Right to Know As a prospective or continuing student at the University of Colorado Boulder, you have a right to certain information that the university is required by law to provide. Much of that information is safety related or financial in nature, but other broad categories are included such as graduation rates, athletics, and the various costs associated with attending CU Boulder. Current federal regulations require that institutions of higher education disclose such information and make it readily available to current and prospective students. The Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 requires institutions to provide a list of the information to which students are entitled with instructions on who to contact to obtain more information. Academic Programs catalog.colorado.edu The university's catalog site contains a summary of current campus offerings, policies and requirements; descriptions of colleges, schools and individual departments; and degree requirements, course descriptions and faculty listings. View the main catalog archive. Office of the Registrar registrar@colorado.edu 303-492-6970 Regent Administrative Center 101 Accreditation & State Authorization The University of Colorado Boulder is a member of the University of Colorado System and is authorized to award degrees by the State of Colorado Department of Higher Education, Colorado Commission on Higher Education: 1600 Broadway, Suite 2200 Denver, CO 80202. Since 1913, the University has been accredited by the Higher Learning Commission, 230 South LaSalle St., Ste 7-500, Chicago, IL 60604; 1-800-621-7440 Additionally, some colleges, schools and programs are accredited by professional or specialized organizations. View information on specialized accreditations. The University of Colorado Boulder has been approved to participate in the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements and is authorized to provide education to students located outside of Colorado. Learn more about State Authorization. Office of the Chancellor chancellor@colorado.edu 303-492-8908 University Administrative Center, 914 Broadway Alcohol & Drug Abuse Prevention www.colorado.edu/aod This site provides comprehensive information on CU Boulder alcohol and drug policies, prevention of drug and alcohol abuse, educational and counseling programs, and links to related sites. As of December 2020, the Department of Education removed penalties that resulted in a loss of federal student aid eligibility for students who had been convicted under federal or state law for possession or sale of illegal drugs if the offense occurred while the student was receiving Title IV aid. View the Office of Financial Aid's policy on Drug Conviction. Office of the Assistant Vice Chancellor for Health and Wellness 303-492-2937 www.colorado.edu/health/promotion www.colorado.edu/aod Campus Security Policies, Crime Statistics & Crime Log Review the CU Boulder Security Policies, Crime Statistics and Annual Security and Fire Safety report , submitted annually to the U.S. Department of Education, or the daily crime log. University of Colorado Boulder Police Department www.colorado.edu/police 303-492-7311 1050 Regent Drive Career & Job Placement Services www.colorado.edu/career This site provides information for students, alumni, families, faculty and staff on career development, internship, and post-graduate employment. The website also includes a comprehensive events calendar as well as access to Career Buffs, the online recruiting system for jobs and on-campus interviewing. Career Services career@colorado.edu 303-492-6541 Center for Community S440 & N450 Copyright Infringement—Policies & Sanctions (Including Computer Use, File Sharing) As a community, we respect the intellectual property of others, regardless of what medium the material is transmitted in. We prohibit the use of unauthorized distribution of copyrighted material, which is subject to both civil and criminal penalties as well as university procedures. View penalties for violation of federal copyright laws and the universities policies on unauthorized peer-to-peer file sharing, illegal downloading and unauthorized distribution of copyrighted materials using the school’s information technology system at www.colorado.edu/libraries/copyright-information. Send copyright infringement reports to: Dan Jones, Assistant Vice President and Chief Information Security Officer dan.jones@cu.edu 303-735-6637 University of Colorado, 1800 Grant St. Ste. 745, Denver, CO 80203-1187 Send other reports of computer abuse to abuse@colorado.edu Cost of Attendance Bursar's Office Annual Cost Estimates View the estimated costs associated with attending CU Boulder, including tuition and mandatory fees, on-campus room and board, and books and supplies. Transportation, personal and medical cost estimates are traditionally considered part of the cost of attendance for financial aid purposes. View estimated student budgets for financial aid. Bursar's Office bursar@colorado.edu 303-492-5381 Regent Administrative Center 175 Course Materials Textbook and course material information is available to students in Buff Portal when they access their class schedules. Information includes ISBN number and price of required and recommended textbooks. Textbook and course material information is also available on the CU Book Store website. The CU Book Store sells and rents textbooks and course materials in the University Memorial Center (UMC) and online. Low-Cost Course Materials and Open Educational Resources (OER) The university is required to inform students prior to course registration which courses and sections use open educational resources (OER) or other low-cost course materials (Colorado Revised Statute 23-1-134). When searching and registering for classes, students may use CU Boulder Class Search to find courses with no- and low-cost course materials (less than $20). The estimated total cost of required course materials is available in the search results panel for each class, however, the cost is subject to change. Changes may occur as a result of updated pricing information from publishers and wholesalers, changes to the instructor teaching the class, or updated textbook and course material information received from the department or instructor. CU Book Store assist@cubookstore.com 303-492-6411 (or toll free: 800-255-9168) University Memorial Center (UMC) CU Book Store Live Chat Office of the Registrar registrar@colorado.edu 303-492-6970 Regent Administrative Center 101 Open Educational Resources, University Libraries oerleads@colorado.edu Co-Leads: Melissa Cantrell, Merinda McLure and Caroline Sinkinson Facilities and Services for Students with Disabilities www.colorado.edu/disabilityservices Disability Services ensures that students with disabilities receive reasonable accommodations and services to participate fully in the academic environment. Disability Services expects and coaches the campus community to embrace and embody a fully accessible and culturally sensitive campus. Disability Services dsinfo@colorado.edu 303-492-8671 Center for Community N200 Filing a Student Complaint It is an express Boulder campus policy that all students at all times have the right to lodge a complaint or grievance which they deem important without fear of retaliation of any sort or any other adverse consequence as a result of doing so. Campus guidance: Student Appeals, Complaints, and Grievances: A Brief Guide State of Colorado Department of Higher Education: Filing a Student Complaint If you'd like to discuss a concern confidentially and/or would like help finding the right place to file a complaint, please contact the Ombuds Office. Ombuds Office 303-492-5077 Center for Community (C4C), Suite N440 www.colorado.edu/ombuds Student Financial Assistance (Financial Aid) Information on the types of financial aid assistance available from Federal, State, Local and Institutional sources, eligibility requirements, how to apply, how aid is applied to your university bill, and more information is available at www.colorado.edu/financialaid. Students who receive any form of financial aid have certain rights and responsibilities. Additionally, CU Boulder staff follow the Student Loan Code of Conduct. Financial Aid financialaid@colorado.edu 303-492-5091 Regent Administrative Center 175 Fire Safety Policies, Fire Statistics & Fire Log (On-Campus Housing Facilities) Information about the university's fire safety systems, procedures, and policies, is available in the annual Security & Fire Safety Report , as are data about fires that have occurred in on-campus housing since 2006. University of Colorado Boulder Police Department 303-492-7311 1050 Regent Drive Graduation & Retention Rates www.colorado.edu/oda/institutional-research The Office of Data Analytics maintains a myriad of statistical information about a broad range of subjects. See graduation and retention rates. See graduation rates for CU Boulder student-athletes. Office of Data Analytics analytics@colorado.edu 303-492-8631 Administrative and Research Center (ARC), 3100 Marine Street, Room 281 Intercollegiate Athletic Program Participation Rates & Financial Support Data (Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act) ope.ed.gov/athletics In compliance with U.S. Department of Education requirements, data on athletic program participation rates and financial support may be found at this site. Intercollegiate Athletics www.cubuffs.com 303-492-7931 Dal Ward Center Net Price Calculator (College Affordability Estimator) ofa.colorado.edu/NetPriceCalculator/ The Net Price Calculator is an online tool to help prospective students and their parents estimate the cost of attending CU Boulder. It provides an estimate of typical expenses for a first-time, full-time undergraduate student to attend CU Boulder and an estimate of financial aid that the student may be eligible to receive from the university. Office of Financial Aid financialaid@colorado.edu 303-492-5091 Regent Administrative Center 175 Placement for Graduates: Jobs & Further Education CU Boulder Seniors' Future Plans Survey The Office of Institutional Research administers the “Seniors’ Future Plans” Survey every spring. This survey asks seniors each year about their immediate, post-graduation employment and further education plans; those results are reported by college and by major. Office of Data Analytics analytics@colorado.edu 303-492-8631 Administrative and Research Center (ARC), 3100 Marine Street, Room 281 Privacy of Student Records—Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) www.colorado.edu/registrar/students/records/ferpa This site explains your rights with respect to your educational record as outlined in the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). Office of the Registrar registrar@colorado.edu 303-492-6970 Regent Administrative Center 101 Professional Licensure Some programs and degrees at the University of Colorado Boulder could lead to professional licensure in certain fields. If you plan to pursue licensure within the United States and/or its territories, you should first determine your state’s criteria for examination and licensure as well as any additional requirements you may need to fulfill. You can find links to the appropriate state licensing board on the University of Colorado Boulder’s Professional Licensure website. Office of the Chancellor chancellor@colorado.edu 303-492-8908 University Administrative Center, 914 Broadway (Refund Policy & Requirements for) Withdrawal & Return of Federal Financial Aid www.colorado.edu/registrar/students/withdraw This page includes what you'll need to know if you want or need to withdraw from the university, including information about deadlines, policies and refund assessment schedules. For information on the impact to financial aid if a student withdraws, view the Return to Title IV Funds & Refund Policy page. Office of the Registrar registrar@colorado.edu 303-492-6970 Regent Administrative Center 101 Bursar’s Office bursar@colorado.edu 303-492-5381 Regent Administrative Center 175 Office of Financial Aid financialaid@colorado.edu 303-492-5091 Regent Administrative Center 175 Riot Law (Colorado Law on Student Riots) Student Conduct Code Polices and Procedures This document contains the Colorado Law on Student Riots - CRS 23-5-124. Please see Student Conduct Policies and Procedures (PDF), Appendix 4:Colorado Law Regarding Riots. Office of Student Conduct & Conflict Resolution studentconduct@colorado.edu 303-492-3589 Center for Community S430 Student Activities The Student Life Experience: Activities, Clubs & Organizations CU Boulder has about 476 academic, social, religious, recreational, and political student clubs and more than 30 collegiate club sports. Center for Student Involvement involvement@colorado.edu 303-492-6366 University Memorial Center (UMC) 330 Student Diversity Information about student body diversity is available from the National Center for Education Statistics and from CU Boulder’s Office of Data Analytics website, which includes data on the percentages of enrolled students who are male, female, members of different ethnic and racial groups, and Federal Pell Grant recipients. Office of Data Analytics analytics@colorado.edu 303-492-8631 Administrative and Research Center (ARC), 3100 Marine Street, Room 281 Teacher Preparation Program Report Title II Institutional Reports Go to this site for annual Title II institutional reports submitted to the state of Colorado to fulfill requirements of the Higher Education Act. Reports include program requirements, goals, enrollment data, program completion data, compliance information, and assessment rates (i.e., numbers of students taking and passing teacher certification/licensure tests). School of Education edadvise@colorado.edu 303-492-6555 Education Room 153 Transfer of Credit Policies & Articulation Agreements General policies on transfer of credit are available through the Office of Admissions and the undergraduate catalog. Some colleges and programs within the University of Colorado Boulder may have additional transfer policies. Contact the Office of Admissions with any questions about transferring credits. Articulation Agreements The University of Colorado Boulder has a number of articulation agreements with state community colleges allowing you to graduate from a community college with an Associate of Arts (AA) or Associate of Science (AS) degree, enroll at the university with junior level status, and complete a bachelor's degree in no more than an additional 60-66 credits. For information visit the Colorado Department of Higher Education's website on Transfer Degrees. The College of Engineering and Applied Science has partnerships with Western Colorado University in Gunnison, Colorado and Colorado Mesa University in Grand Junction, Colorado. These partnerships allow students to earn a bachelor's degree from CU Boulder in one of several engineering degree programs while taking all courses on the Western Slope of Colorado. Guaranteed Admission for Colorado Transfer Students Under the statewide Guaranteed Transfer (GT) Pathways program, up to 31-37 credits of successfully completed coursework (C- or better) will automatically transfer and apply toward graduation requirements at the receiving institution. Admissions admissions@colorado.edu 303-492-6301 Regent Administrative Center 125 Transfer-out Rates Information about proportions of first-year students and new transfers who transfer to and complete their undergraduate education at another higher education institution is available as part of the CU Boulder profile on the Student Achievement Measure (SAM) website. Office of Data Analytics analytics@colorado.edu 303-492-8631 Administrative and Research Center (ARC), 3100 Marine Street, Room 281 Vaccination Policies www.colorado.edu/orientation/health-wellness Colorado state law requires first-year, transfer and graduate students to submit proof of certain vaccinations. Refer to this site for details. Medical Services immunizations@colorado.edu 303-492-5101 1900 Wardenburg Drive Voter Registration For information on how to register to vote while attending CU Boulder, visit the Office of the Registrar’s Voter Registration webpage. For additional information on voting and voter registration, please see Boulder County Colorado: Student Voting and Boulder County Colorado: Voter Registration & Voter Information. Office of the Registrar registrar@colorado.edu 303-492-6970 Regent Administrative Center 101 The University of Colorado Boulder is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission. Our most recent accreditation renewal occurred in 2010 and the previous was in 2000. Apply for Admission Visit Campus Support CU Boulder Get Help Safety & Health Services Campus Communications Emergency Alert System New Student & Family Programs Getting Around Campus Map Campus Events Parking & Transportation Visit Information Information for Faculty & Staff Families Journalists Initiatives Business & Industry Collaborations Diversity & Community Engagement Free Speech Innovation & Entrepreneurship International Students Public & Outreach Programs Sustainability Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Pinterest University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Contact Us • Privacy • Legal & Trademarks Accessibility • Student Consumer Information • Policies • CU Boulder Jobs Download the Clery Act Annual Security & Fire safety report, or request a paper copy from the CU Boulder Police Department. Return to the top of the page