Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Department of Environmental Health Our Mission Helping maintain and improve the health of all people through global leadership in environmental health research and training. ‘Boot camp’ draws researchers focused on environmental health disparities “Built into environmental justice is the need to identify a problem and develop or design a solution that can be testable and improved upon, " said Tamarra James-Todd, Mark and Catherine Winkler Associate Professor of Environmental Reproductive Epidemiology Air pollution’s deadly toll Hundreds of thousands of lives could be saved by improving the quality of air that Americans breathe Clean energy plan would save thousands of lives A newly proposed plan could increase renewable energy, quickly curb fossil fuel emissions, enhance air quality, and save hundreds of thousands of lives No Time to Waste How Harvard Chan School researchers are taking action on climate change and fighting for a healthier, more equitable planet. Steps for a safe return to workplaces Offices are starting to reopen as the risk of contracting COVID-19 decreases, but employers should still take steps to protect their workers because the risk has not disappeared completely, according to experts. Department of Environmental Health Menu Search for: Home COVID Updates: Your Health, Our Tips About Facts and Figures Department Programs Centers and Working Groups Department History Events The Planetary Health Colloquium Archive The 20th Whittenberger Symposium People Faculty Research Scientists Graduate Students EH SM Students EH PhD Students Administrative Contacts Research Air Pollution Built Environment Climate Change Exposure Assessment Metals Nano-Materials Occupational Health Physiology Sustainability Toxic Chemicals Water Pollution Recent Publications About Department Communications Department Newsletter Chair Chatter Current Students PhD in Population Health Sciences PhD in Population Health Sciences Curriculum Guide PhD Required Forms PhD Student Toolkit PhD in Biological Sciences in Public Health PhD Program in Biological Sciences in Public Health Tool Kit Masters of Science Master of Science Curriculum Guide Master of Science Student Toolkit Master of Public Health (45 Credits) Master of Public Health Curriculum Guide Master of Public Health Student Tool Kit Graduate Student Directory EH PhD Student Directory EH SM Student Directory Graduate Students News Postdoctoral Fellow News Postdoctoral Fellows Directory Prospective Students PhD in Population Health Sciences PhD in Population Health Sciences Curriculum Guide PhD in Biological Sciences in Public Health Master of Science Master of Science Curriculum Guide Master of Public Health (45 Credits) Master of Public Health Curriculum Guide Internal Resource Website Grant & Finance Resource Page Personnel Department Photos 2022 EH Convocation Celebration 2022 EH Games Night 2019 EH Holiday Party 2019 EH Convocation Celebration 2019 EH Research Retreat Fellowships Current Opportunities Global leaders in research and training addressing critical environmental and public health challenges. Welcome Francine Laden, ScD Associate Chair, Department of Environmental Health Doug Dockery, ScD Acting Chair, Department of Environmental Health As Chair and Associate Chair of the Department of Environmental Health, we welcome you to our website. For more than 100 years, our Department has advanced the field of Environmental Health through hands-on learning and training, and translates evidence-based on research. We have a vibrant and rich history of guiding public discourse, and national and international leaders, on the most pressing environmental health challenges in the twenty-first-century. To better serve communities’ changing health, we employ innovative strategies and solutions to increase public awareness. Our work in laboratories, field studies, and cohort studies has provided the basis of environmental and occupational health on humans. Members of our Department create and advance our knowledge of harmful exposures and translate their discoveries into actions that ultimately improve people’s health. Our centers, faculty, students, and staff engage in service activities to expand the capacity of communities by training, mentoring, and empowering the next world leaders. Follow us on TwitterMy Tweets Admissions Information PhD in Population Health Sciences Overview Curriculum Guide Admissions When to Apply Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Request Info PhD in Biological Science in Public Health Overview Curriculum Guide Admissions When to Apply Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Request Info Master of Science Overview Curriculum Guide Admissions When to Apply Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Request Info Master of Public Health Overview Curriculum Guide Admissions When to Apply Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Request Info Contact Us Department of Environmental Health Administrative Office 665 Huntington Avenue Building 1, Room 1301 Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Phone: 617.432.1270 envhlth@hsph.harvard.edu Researchers from Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health explored the implications of the COVID-19 pandemic for t… https://t.co/7RPRp9koUm A study led by Aaron Bernstein shows the annual costs of primary pandemic prevention actions (~$20 billion) are les… https://t.co/hrPTVzNnrp Heloisa Jardim, Research Manager at SHINE, reports on The Harvard Adult Development study in her blog "Let’s be Mor… https://t.co/U7ijhNcfBa Eileen McNeely’s blog, "Business as a Platform for Humans Flourishing: Now What do we do with that?" explores how o… https://t.co/LavKFmpLUD Ernani Choma, postdoctoral fellow, and co-authors wrote an influential PNAS article entitled Health benefits of dec… https://t.co/bjOrlGjoAY Upcoming Event: Wednesday, April 27 (1:00 – 2:00 PM ET) via Zoom Speaker: Dr. Shruthi Mahalingaiah Title: Phy… https://t.co/2lL58XcoeN Lisa Frueh, Gary Adamkiewicz, and Tamarra James-Todd, launched an exciting interactive story mapping project focusi… https://t.co/099vnMIU1P Upcoming Event: Friday, April 15 (1:10 – 1:50 PM ET) Friday Grand Rounds – Aeromedical Concern for Routine Medic… https://t.co/PcRmm9pT25 Planetary Health was in the spotlight this month with United Nation Development Programs Special Edition Bulletin a… https://t.co/lRD2TNiRYw Dr. David Christiani, Elkan Blout Professor of Environmental Genetics, was voted by Boston Magazine as one of the B… https://t.co/Q8tgVN3zbb News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website