Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Provost Provost right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet the Provost right arrow down arrow Event Request Form Leadership Committees Next Lives Here Initiatives right arrow down arrow COACHE Textbook Affordability UC Women Lead Program Dual Career Assistance Program Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program Decanal Searches Faculty right arrow down arrow Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure right arrow down arrow eRPT Collective Bargaining Agreement Resources right arrow down arrow Faculty Retention Program Proposal Process right arrow down arrow Distance Learning Programs Adjunct Resources Leaves of Absence Associations right arrow down arrow Latino Faculty Association right arrow down arrow About Members Resources Events & Photo Gallery News Emeriti Association right arrow down arrow Membership LGBTQ Faculty and Staff Association Black Faculty Association right arrow down arrow About Resources Events and News Committees Photo Gallery The Academy of Fellows - AFTL right arrow down arrow Members, Eligibility & Benefits Journal for Research & Practice in College Teaching Faculty Enrichment Center right arrow down arrow Programming and Resources Colleges and Offices right arrow down arrow Colleges Offices right arrow down arrow Faculty Affairs & Academic Personnel Enrollment Management Graduate School The Office of Institutional Research right arrow down arrow Facts & Dashboards College Financial Reporting Survey Research & Consulting Resources Contact Us UC International IT @ UC Student Affairs Undergraduate Studies right arrow down arrow Affiliated Offices Integrated Core Learning (ICL) General Education Core Contact Us Awards right arrow down arrow All-University Faculty Awards Home » About UC » Office of the Provost » Colleges and Offices » Colleges Set Navigation title in component Colleges Offices Faculty Affairs & Academic Personnel Enrollment Management Graduate School The Office of Institutional Research Facts & Dashboards Student Dashboards Faculty & Staff Dashboards Financial Dashboards College Financial Reporting Survey Research & Consulting Resources Contact Us UC International IT @ UC Student Affairs Undergraduate Studies Affiliated Offices Integrated Core Learning (ICL) General Education Core Requirements Definitions History Leadership Career Education Learning Outcomes Contact Us Colleges The Office of the Provost leads the affairs of the University of Cincinnati’s 13 academic colleges, the academic deans, the two regional campuses, the library, and the Graduate School, as well as the 45,000 students and 4,200 faculty that populate them. Through collaboration with the academic deans, they strive to build an educational environment where students of all disciplines and backgrounds can thrive and achieve success. Council of Deans Drawing from the University’s 17 Deans, the Council of Deans meets monthly to provide guidance on UC’s policies, initiatives, and large-scale projects. Allied Health Sciences The College of Allied Health Sciences educates and prepares future allied health and other health science professionals to provide high quality service in their respective fields. In conjunction with community-based partners, students achieve clinical skills and learn the values of critical thinking, good communication, teamwork, cultural competence and service learning. The college's faculty is committed to excellence in teaching, research, service and leadership. College of Arts & Sciences The College of Arts and Sciences is the University of Cincinnati’s largest and most diverse college, providing a liberal arts education to more than 7,500 undergraduate and 1,000 graduate students. Since its beginnings in 1819, the College of Arts and Sciences has grown to become the mainstay of an urban, thriving Research 1 university with more than 400 faculty, offering 70+ degree programs in natural sciences, social sciences and the humanities. UC Blue Ash College UC Blue Ash College (UCBA) is a regional college within the University. It offers one of the best values in higher education with access to a nationally recognized UC education, as well as tuition that is about half of most colleges & universities. Within a culture of diversity & a passion for student success, UCBA unleashes education with the flexibility and convenience to accommodate multiple life stages and lifestyles. UCBA provides the same rigor & quality as the Uptown campus, coupled with small class sizes, affordable tuition and accessible faculty. Lindner College of Business At Lindner, we are committed to developing the next generation of business leaders. Through personalized career coaching and experiential learning, our students graduate with a competitive advantage in the workforce and are strongly positioned to address a multitude of today’s global business challenges. For more than 110 years, we’ve not only served as a catalyst for innovation and cutting-edge research, but our programs have also earned national acclaim in several academic areas. Clermont College UC Clermont College provides student-centered undergraduate education and life-long learning in an open-access, regional college environment. We foster diversity as well as intellectual, cultural and social development in our community. UC Clermont College will become the first choice for students who seek quality undergraduate degree opportunities that are accessible and affordable. We endeavor to respond to community needs and to foster lifestyles which are sustainable, culturally rich and rewarding. College-Conservatory of Music Nationally ranked and internationally renowned, CCM is a preeminent institution for the performing and media arts. CCM’s faculty and staff and its state-of-the-art facilities make possible the professional training and exceptional education on which CCM believes the future of the arts relies. The school’s roster of eminent faculty regularly receives distinguished honors for creative and scholarly work, and its alumni have achieved notable success in the performing and media arts. More than 150 internationally recognized faculty members work with students from around the world. UC Online University of Cincinnati Online provides high-quality, online academic programs from a premier research and higher learning institution located in the heart of Cincinnati, Ohio. The University of Cincinnati was one of the first institutions to offer online courses. Innovation in education is at the forefront of what we do. Our flexible programs allow you to create an academic path that suits your lifestyle and career goals. We deliver a world-class experience for students seeking online flexibility and UC academic excellence. College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning The University of Cincinnati’s College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning is a world renowned comprehensive research and design institution offering undergraduate and graduate degree programs. DAAP has as its primary mission the creation of a better visual and design environment. Through excellence in educational programs, research, creative works and service to the community, the faculty, the students and administrative officers of DAAP are dedicated to achieve this mission. College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services The College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services (CECH) is dedicated to making a difference in our communities through outreach, academic programs, and community partnerships. Our students and faculty work side-by-side with teachers, athletic trainers, intervention specialists, and law enforcement officials, because we value experiential learning as an important element of our degree programs. Current research is incorporated into every course to ensure our graduates are ready to address the most urgent challenges of our society. Engineering & Applied Sciences UC’s College of Engineering and Applied Science unleashes education by immersing students in a rigorous and innovative curriculum and culture of real-world, experience-based learning. The value of a CEAS degree is unparalleled, providing elevated placement, greater earning potential and unlimited post-graduate options. Experience-Based Learning and Career Education At the University of Cincinnati, we believe that experiential learning and career education are key components of higher education. In support of this, we develop and deliver innovative, high-impact courses, programs, and services which foster students’ personal and professional growth as dynamic, thoughtful, global citizens. We collaborate with campus, industry, and community partners to develop rich opportunities and experiences for students to learn both inside and outside the classroom. Graduate School Graduate students play a critical role in the University of Cincinnati's status as a comprehensive research-intensive university. Through the Graduate School's 350+ graduate degree and certificate programs, University of Cincinnati graduate students generate knowledge and discovery that benefit society. At the University of Cincinnati Graduate School, we invest in tomorrow’s leaders and professionals. Law As the fourth oldest continuously operating law school in the country and a top 35 public law school as ranked by US News & World Report, UC’s College of Law has a rich history. Its distinguished alumni include a U.S. president, a Nobel Peace Prize winner and six governors. The college cultivates an intimate learning experience with a 9:1 student to faculty ratio and offers a wealth of resources, such as more than 40 student organizations, five journals and six centers and institutes. Libraries UC Libraries support the University of Cincinnati's undergraduate, graduate, and professional programs and includes the Walter C. Langsam Library, the Archives and Rare Books Library, the Donald C. Harrison Health Sciences Library and eight college and department libraries serving applied science, architecture, art, biology, chemistry, classics, design, education, engineering, geology, health sciences, mathematics, music, physics, and planning. Medicine The University of Cincinnati College of Medicine has a distinguished reputation for training prominent health care professionals and providing leading-edge research. Because of its excellence in education, patient care and research, students, researchers, physicians and patients travel from all over the world to take advantage of its many opportunities. The College of Medicine is committed to providing a curriculum which offers diverse learning opportunities. Students develop a broad range of knowledge, skills and attitudes necessary to practice medicine. Nursing A nationally recognized institution for our academic standards, diversity and inclusion efforts, technology application and research activity, we educate our students to put patients first, abide by ethical standards, innovate, open themselves to change and meet new workplace demands. Our mission is to ensure our graduates are empowered to think critically; advocate for patients and the profession; and explore, generate and apply nursing knowledge in any setting. Pharmacy The James L. Winkler College of Pharmacy is the fourth oldest pharmacy school in the U.S. It was the first college in the nation to offer graduate programs and certificates with tracks specific to cosmetic science. Areas of research focus include health outcomes, cosmetic science and drug development. Office of the Provost 2614 McMicken Cir, Cincinnati, OH 45219 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Provost 2614 McMicken Cir, Cincinnati, OH 45219 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top