Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Hispanic Studies Undergraduate Hispanic Studies Undergraduate Director of Undergraduate Studies: Prof. Silvia Sobral Spanish is the second most widely spoken language in the world and the second language of the United States. In our society, knowing Spanish is not just an asset; it is increasingly a necessity. The Spanish language program offers a sequence of courses ranging from basic to advanced. Students at all levels develop proficiency in speaking, listening, reading, and writing while also studying the cultures and societies of the contemporary Spanish-speaking world. The Hispanic Literatures and Cultures concentration enables students to develop advanced Spanish skills while acquiring a solid background in the complex history, literature, cultures, and intellectual traditions of Spain, Latin America, and the Latinx-U.S. The department offers a variety of courses on topics related to literary history and theory; multicultural contact; linguistics and the history of the language; visual culture, film, and performance studies. Interdisciplinarity is a hallmark of the department, and students in this concentration are encouraged to broaden their perspectives by taking relevant courses in other departments. Most choose to strengthen their academic preparation by participating in a study abroad program in Spain or Latin America and by engaging with Latin American and Latinx communities in the United States. The concentration requires a minimum of ten courses. A required course, HISP 0650 Advanced Spanish through Literature and Film, provides fundamental tools for critical analysis while continuing to emphasize grammar and writing development. 700-level courses provide fundamental tools for critical analysis and opportunities for developing advanced skills in the Spanish language. In courses at the 1000 level, students explore particular authors, genres, periods, or special topics and continue to hone their skills in literary and cultural analysis. CONCENTRATION GUIDELINES Home Contact us Faculty Graduate Students Current Events News & Announcements Current Courses Course Placement La Pluma Writing Center Language Evaluations Undergraduate Honors Program Hispanic Studies DUG Concentration Guidelines SOMOS Latinx Literary Magazine Study Abroad Graduate Program Transatlantic Project Print this Page Share this Page Hispanic Studies Brown University Box 1961 84 Prospect Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3517 Fax 401-863-1669 [email protected] Calendar There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Other Resources Brown in Spain Library Resources