Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Start Here The UofM Experience Visit Connect Apply Admitted Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Request Information Apply to UofM Campus Visits and Events Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Admitted Students After Acceptance After Acceptance Congrats! You're In! Now that you're admitted, be sure to complete these steps: Step 1: Complete the Admitted Student Checklist Admitted Students > Step 2: I-20 Documents, Visas and Other Documentation All students must verify lawful presence in the United States: International students already in possession of a visa (non-F1 visas) must upload a copy of their visa at our secure document site. New arrivals may upload a copy of their I-94 Admission Number. Admitted students who plan to enter the US with an F-1 visa can begin the I-20 process using the Terra Dotta application and work with the International Students Services (ISS) to complete data requirements for a form I-20. Please be prepared to present the following documents: A copy of your passport A bank statement (proof of funding, within 6 months, for tuition and living costs for two regular semesters = $30,592 USD for UG and $30,658 USD for Grad) An affidavit of support The International Student Services will need to see both proof of full admission and full financial documentation in order to prepare and send the I-20. International students seeking an F1 visa will be required to present proof of visa upon arrival on campus. Proof of visa can be confirmed at the Office of International Student Services. For questions on the F-1 visa, US Department of Homeland Security regulations for international students or SEVIS issues, please visit International Student Services. Review the New International Student Guide > Step 3: Apply for an International Merit Scholarship Eligible undergraduate students must have a 3.25 high school or college GPA or 25 ACT or 1200 SAT score. If you wish to apply for the international merit scholarship, then you must upload a copy of your NACES approved credential evaluation confirming your official GPA calculation. Apply Now > Step 4: Meet With Academic Advisor Now to the fun part... Mapping out the path to your degree and choosing all the courses to help you meet your career goals. Get Advised > Step 5: Register for Classes Once you've been advised and the advising "flag" on your account has been cleared, you can register for courses. View detailed registration instructions > Step 6: Confirm Health Insurance/Record Health records must be provided within 30 days of the first day of classes showing freedom from Tuberculosis. (NOTE: All international students must purchase a health insurance policy or provide proof of government sponsored health insurance before they will be allowed to enroll.) Learn more about insurance > Step 7: Request Your Campus ID Card When you have registered for your courses for the current school semester, a campus (ID) card may be requested by logging into your campus card account. Once logged in, click the link that says "Submit New Photo" and follow the directions. *Please note, if you are an online student you will be required to upload your official government-issued ID such as a Driver’s License or Passport for verification purposes. The Campus Card Office is located at 115 Wilder Tower on the main campus and in 109 Varnell-Jones on the Lambuth Campus. Step 8: Learn More About Parking on Campus For students, General Permit Parking is paid for through the Maintenance Fee portion of your semester tuition. Once you have registered for classes, a semester validation sticker will be mailed to the address on file with Student Records. New students are mailed a permit (hangtag) along with a semester validation sticker prior to fee payment. The UofM permit (hangtag) must be updated every semester with a current semester validation sticker. Resident and priority parking is available for additional fees. Parking on campus > Step 9: Fee Payment All tuition fees are detailed in TigerXpress. Payments can be processed online, by mail or in-person. Learn more about fee payment > If you have additional questions regarding the next steps to enrollment, then please contact our Office of International Student Services at TheWorld@memphis.edu. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/5/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.