Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Current Graduate Students The Versatile Ph.D. Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application The Versatile Ph.D. The Versatile Ph.D.: a new resource "to help graduate students identify, prepare for, and excel in possible non-academic careers."Have you been thinking about the next steps for your career? The Versatile Ph.D. is a new resource for graduate students interested in exploring non-academic career options. Their mission is "to help graduate students identify, prepare for, and excel in possible non-academic careers." The site includes content for humanities, social sciences, and STEM fields. While some content is free, Boston College has an institutional subscription to offer premium content to its graduate students. Login to The Versatile Ph.D. website to gain access to the career finder as well as "real-life examples of Ph.D.s and ABDs who went into each of the careers portrayed: their stories, advice, inside information about their fields, even the actual resumes and cover letters they used to get their first post-academic jobs." Info on careers and job listings outside academia for Ph.D.s, ABDs and MAs. See authentic, successful resumes and cover letters that got a Ph.D. their first job outside academia. Join a supportive web-based community where you can get advice from Ph.D.s and ABDs working outside the academy. Completely confidential. No one at this or any university will know you are using this website unless you tell them. Start here (BC login required) to gain access to The Versatile Ph.D.'s premium content. Back To Top Back To Top Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 108 617-552-3265 gsasinfo@bc.edu About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College