Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Department of Surgery Fellowship Programs Advanced Laparoscopic MIS/Bariatric Surgery Fellowship Department of Surgery Advanced Laparoscopic MIS/Bariatric Surgery Fellowship The Advanced Laparoscopic Fellowship is a one-year, clinically-based training program associated with the Alpert Medical School of Brown University. The goal of the fellowship is to provide hands-on experience with advanced laparoscopic procedures, including anti-reflux, inguinal and ventral hernias, Heller myotomy, adrenalectomy, splenectomy, donor nephrectomy, colon resection and gastric bypass. The academic year starts August 1st and ends July 31st. The fellow becomes fully licensed to practice medicine by the Rhode Island Medical Board and is given status as a Junior Attending in General Surgery at Rhode Island Hospital. In addition to clinical responsibilities, the fellow has educational duties to both residents and medical students from Alpert Medical School, as well as research responsibilities. Presentation at a national conference, such as SAGES or SLS, is encouraged. A benefits package is provided for one year through Brown Surgical Associates. The fellow receives a salary equivalent to a PGY-6, and professional liability insurance. Three weeks of vacation and one week of educational leave are allowed. How to Apply Candidates must submit application materials to the Fellowship Council. Selected candidates are invited for a personal interview. Contact Us Program Coordinator Leslie Cabana [email protected] 401-444-0326 Home About Surgery Faculty Residency Program Fellowship Programs Advanced Laparoscopic Surgery Fellowship Colorectal Surgery Fellowship Pediatric Surgery Fellowship Surgical Critical Care Fellowship Medical Student Training Diversity Print this Page Share this Page Rhode Island Hospital Brown University 593 Eddy Street, APC 4 Providence, RI 02903 Phone (401) 444-5180 Fax (401) 444-6681 The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift DIVERSITY Surgery Dept Brown Minority House Staff Association