Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Information Technology> Security and Compliance> Electronic Records and Document Imaging - Xtender - Version 1 Electronic Records and Document Imaging - Xtender Version 1 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Policy REG08.05.09 Title Electronic Records and Document Imaging - Xtender Category Information Technology Sub-category Security and Compliance Authority Chancellor History Approved April 23, 2018 Contact Information Technology and Computing Services - Xtender Team, (252) 328-9051 Joyner Library, Records Management, recordsmanagement@ecu.edu, (252) 328-2238 Director of Compliance Management, (252) 328-5629 Related Policies Data Governance Regulation Litigation Hold Notices: Preservation of Potentially Relevant Evidence in Anticipation of Litigation ECU Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA or Buckley Amendment) Additional References Xtender Electronic Records and Imaging Regulation and Procedures Request for Disposal of Records Duplicated by Electronic Means ITCS Technology Requirements and Guidelines Website ITCS Xtender Document Imaging Website N.C. General Statutes Chapter 121 - Archives and History Act N.C. General Statutes Chapter 132 Public Records NCDNCR Government Records Section of the State Archives Guidelines for Managing Trustworthy Digital Public Records Public Records Requiring Human Readable Preservation Duplicates 45 CFR 164 Subpart E: Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information (HIP A A) Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Regulations (FERPA) 1. Introduction and Background North Carolina General Statutes Chapters 121 and 132 direct the North Carolina Department of Natural and Cultural Resources (NCDNCR) to administer records management services to public colleges and universities. NCDNCR fulfils this mandate through the Government Records Section of the State Archives (Government Records) and is the approving authority for records retention and disposition schedules and for the use of document imaging systems for retention purposes. Government Records provides a template, Electronic Records and Imaging Policy and Procedures, for universities to complete prior to using a document imaging system for records retention. An approved document imaging system may allow for the destruction of the original document after a specified period of time in accordance with the University’s records retention schedule and destruction of records procedures. 2. Document Imaging System East Carolina University (ECU or University) requires efficient methods of creation, storage and retrieval of records, including the adoption of information technology systems for creating, managing, and storing records in a digital format. ApplicationXtender is a document imaging system. Government Records approved the University’s Xtender Electronic Records and Imaging Regulation and Procedures for ApplicationXtender on March 21, 2018. This approval allows the University to use ApplicationXtender for records retention. 3. Application and Requirements This regulation applies to all University departments, employees, agents and others with access to or supervisory roles related to University’s ApplicationXtender. Users are required to adhere to the record and imaging procedures and applicable standards provided by University’s Xtender Electronic Records and Imaging Regulation and Procedures implementing this Regulation. The implementing procedures may be subject to periodic updates. Any such revisions will be conducted in consultation with the Office of University Counsel. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier