Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Multicultural Affairs About Us Meet Our Staff Student Reflections Annual Events Mosaic Mixer Mosaic Week MA Officer Mixer Hispanic Heritage Month Hispanic Heritage Virtual Celebration Asian & Pacific American Heritage Month Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Virtual Celebration Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration Luncheon Black History Month Black Heritage Banquet MA Signing Day Women's History Month Kente Ceremony Kente History Kente Symbols and Colors Native American Heritage Month Multicultural Organizations MA Coalitions Academic/Professional NPHC and UGC Religious Special Interest Student Associations Get Involved Baylor Leadership Summit Better Together BU Heritage Luncheons Heritage Banquets Lunch and Learn MA Book Club MISTER Multicultural Women's Symposium Neighbor Nights Public Deliberation Initiative Leave Your Mark Resources Anti-Racism Resources Community Involvement Professional Organizations Program Funding Scholarships MA Awards Baylor Scholarships Outside Scholarships Department of Multicultural Affairs A Place for Everyone The Department of Multicultural Affairs helps all students on their journey to self-awareness. The department assists students in learning about the many cultures represented on campus, as well as explore opportunities to dialogue across differences. Explore Multicultural Programs About Us The Department of Multicultural Affairs helps all students on their journey to self-awareness. The department assists students in learning about the many cultures represented on campus, as well as explore opportunities to dialogue across differences. About Us Annual Events The Department of Multicultural Affairs traditionally holds several events every year. Events Multicultural Organizations Baylor University currently has over 40 academic/professional, religious, Greek, and special interest multicultural organizations. Multicultural Organizations Get Involved The Department of Multicultural Affairs provides cultural programs, leadership, development and cross cultural learning opportunities. Get Involved Leave Your Mark Leave Your Mark is an opportunity for you to engage in honest reflection, grow in self-awareness, and begin a lifelong process of appreciating perspectives and cultures different from your own. Leave Your Mark Resources Along with our mission, we want to help all students by connecting them to on-campus and local resources that will help them to succeed during their time here at Baylor. Resources Scholarship Scholarships are available to students who demonstrate commitment to advancing racial equality and diversity. Scholarships MA Times The MA Times is a weekly e-newsletter with a listing of cultural events happening on campus. To subscribe, email multicultural_affairs@baylor.edu. On the Spot Training Trailblazers Scholars Anti-Racism Asian and Pacific American Heritage Month Asian and Pacific American Heritage Month is celebrated between the middle of October to mid-November on campus to recognize the contributions of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders and celebrate the group's heritage and culture. Learn More Kente Ceremony The Kente Ceremony is an event which recognizes, acknowledges, emphasizes, and celebrates the educational achievement of Baylor University graduates. Our intent is to celebrate academic excellence of the graduates as they begin a bright, hopeful future, while simultaneously affirming the role of graduates in the future growth of Baylor University. Learn More Native American Heritage Month November is Native American Heritage Month. Check out all of the events happening on campus to celebrate Native American Culture. Learn More Student Reflections I am grateful for the office of Multicultural Affairs because they have provided me with a strong support system, and have shown me that they genuinely care about me. Isabella Arteaga The Multicultural Affairs office provided me with so many opportunities and resources to not only connect my culture, but to learn about all the various unique cultures! Kenneth Luu One thing I love about Multicultural Affairs is its ability to be personable with all cultures and be a source of information, wisdom, and support for all. Samuel Onilenia One thing that I love about MA is the welcoming spirit that the staff offers to Baylor Students upon every visit. This has had a huge impact on my Baylor experience. Getori Martin Events More Events There are no events for the date(s) selected. Multicultural Affairs 1st Floor, Bill Daniel Student Center One Bear Place #97244 Waco, Texas 76798-7244 254.710.4466 About Us Back Meet Our Staff Student Reflections Annual Events Back Mosaic Mixer Mosaic Week MA Officer Mixer Hispanic Heritage Month Hispanic Heritage Virtual Celebration Asian & Pacific American Heritage Month Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Virtual Celebration Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration Luncheon Black History Month Black Heritage Banquet MA Signing Day Women's History Month Kente Ceremony Back Kente History Kente Symbols and Colors Native American Heritage Month Multicultural Organizations Back MA Coalitions Academic/Professional NPHC and UGC Religious Special Interest Student Associations Get Involved Back Baylor Leadership Summit Better Together BU Heritage Luncheons Heritage Banquets Lunch and Learn MA Book Club MISTER Multicultural Women's Symposium Neighbor Nights Public Deliberation Initiative Leave Your Mark Resources Back Anti-Racism Resources Community Involvement Professional Organizations Program Funding Scholarships Back MA Awards Baylor Scholarships Outside Scholarships General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678