Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar The Center for Pastoral Education Benefit Luncheon Date: Jun 01, 2022 Time: 12:00 pm - 2:00 pm Sponsor: Center for Pastoral Education Location: JTS Transformative Education in Spiritual Care Join us to honor Linda S. Golding with the Pastoral Care Leadership Award and Harold Wolfe with the Charles H. Revson Award. In addition to our honorees, the luncheon will also feature a four-person panel including spiritual leaders trained at the Center who will discuss their work caring for people in crisis. You will hear from Rabbi Amy Bolton (Hospice and Palliative Care), Rabbi David Shmidt Chapman (Nursing Homes and Homeless Shelters), Rabbi Gabriel Kretzmer-Seed (Prison Chaplaincy), and Rabbi Aliza “Tzipi” Zilbershtein (Drug Addiction, Covid Loss, and Spiritual Care for People in Ukraine). RSVP and Donate About Linda S. Golding Chaplain Linda S. Golding received her Master’s Degree in Jewish Studies and the Certificate in Pastoral Care and Counseling from The Jewish Theological Seminary in Spring 2013 and became a board certified chaplain through the Association of Professional Chaplains in 2014. Golding has served as Staff Chaplain and Coordinator at New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center since 2010, caring for patients, families, and staff throughout the adult and children’s hospital. She is the chaplain member of the hospital’s Ethics Committee and its Organ Donor Council and leads regular didactics for chaplains, nurses, doctors and medical students, as well as workshops and webinars for peers and colleagues. Named a member of the inaugural 2020-21 REACH fellowship program sponsored by New York-Presbyterian and ICAP under the aegis of the Dalio Center for Health Justice, Golding’s Capstone Project is “VitalForce: An Everyday Readiness Plan for Spiritual and Emotional Well-being.” She also led the 2021 Luce Foundation-funded program “The Body Knows,” a pilot to provide support to frontline hospital staff. She is an adjunct professor in the Bioethics program at Columbia University, where she teaches Hope, Meaning, and Clinical Ethics, at JTS (Pastoral Torah of Dying and Death), at Union Theological Seminary (Professional Ethics for Spiritual Care and Ministry), and upcoming at the Columbia University School of Nursing (Foundations in Spirituality for Health Care).   Publications include Spiritual Care with Non-Communicative Patients: A Guidebook (Hachette/Jessica Kingsley Publishers 2019) and “The Evolving Role of Hospital Chaplains at the End of Life,” co-authored with The Reverend Martha R. Jacobs in Our Changing Journey to the End (Praeger/ABC-CLIO 2014). About Harold Wolfe Harold Wolfe from Toronto, Canada, is a member of the JTS Investment Committee and until this year, had been a member of the JTS Board of Trustees since 2006. He previously served for six years on what was then known as the Rabbinical School Advisory Board. Harold was employed for 30 years by his family controlled, publicly owned company, then known as The Oshawa Group Limited, which operated across Canada. He served as General Counsel and Corporate VP Real Estate. After the company was sold, Harold established his own investment company and has been actively involved in the areas of stock, bond, and real estate investing. Harold is an active member of Beth Tzedec Congregation, where he was a board member for a number of years, participated in several synagogue committees, including the rabbi search, investment, and fundraising chair for the synagogue’s Centre for Spiritual Well Being. Harold is an honorary board member for life of Camp Ramah in Canada, where he has held several significant roles over the years. He has served on the Israel and Overseas Committee of UJA- Federation of Greater Toronto and established a Tali School in Eilat through the Schechter Institute. Harold is the founder of the Max and Beatrice Wolfe Children’s Grief and Palliative Care Centre at Toronto’s Mount Sinai Hospital.  At JTS he established an annual fellowship for Rabbinical School students to train in Toronto in pastoral education. In 2019, with his wife, Carole, he named the director position of the JTS Center for Pastoral Education. RSVP and Donate Event Committee and Advisory Board Members Rabbi Naomi Kalish, Harold and Carole Wolfe Director of The Center for Pastoral Education Pat Fingeroth, Chair, Advisory Board Brenda Lender, Event Co-Chair Diane Wondisford, Event Co-Chair Helena Diamant-Glass Arline Duker Valerie Gerstein Nina Harris Donna Jakubovitz Sally Kaplan Diane Katz Amber Keinan Reina Marin Ellen Reinheimer Marlene Siegel Judith Stern Marc Wolf Harold Wolfe About The Center for Pastoral Education The Center for Pastoral Education at JTS provides seminarians, clergy, and professionals with intensive training in hospice rooms, nursing homes, soup kitchens, prisons, and congregational settings, supported by expert supervision. Our renowned program, accredited by the Association for Clinical Pastoral Education, equips participants to respond to the need for pastoral care with a unique combination of psychological principles and Jewish wisdom enriched by multi-faith engagement. Learn more about the Center Add To Calendar SHARE THIS PAGE RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message