Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Registration Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Registration Students should review the following information to assist them in the registration process for the Mailman School of Public Health. Additional and further in depth details can be found in the Mailman School of Public Health Student Handbook. Students should visit the handbook for information on withdrawal procedures and extended residence registration for masters students. Student Services Online Cousre Registration is manage via Student Services Online (SSOL). In addition to the important information down below, a brief guide on SSOL and registration is available here. Academic Calendar Please be sure to review the Academic Calendar at the end of and before the start of every term to note the dates of registration for continuing students and change of program period. Please also pay close attention to the last day to drop individual courses or change grading option as students are held responsible for this date. Holds Students should visit Student Services Online (SSOL) for any potential holds which would prevent them from registering. Any students with holds may contact the administering department for details on how to release the hold. Students with any questions on holds associated with their account may also contact the msph-osa [at] columbia.edu (Office of Students Affairs) for assistance. Degree Requirements Students should review their respective academic plans to ensure they are taking classes necessary to complete their degrees as prescribed. MPH students may find their academic plans in the Certificate Requirements database. MHA and MS students may obtain their academic plans from their respective department handbook and/or departmental contact. Doctoral students should consult directly with their respective advisors and departmental contact. Pre-Registration Some departments may elect to pre-register students for their required coursework. Students should consult with their individual departments to determine whether or not they will be pre-registered for any courses. Courses for which students are not pre-registered should be added by students during the appropriate registration period. Registration During the regularly scheduled registration and change of program period, Mailman School students may add and/or drop courses via SSOL. After the change of program period, students must follow the below outlined procedure. Please note the difference in procedure for full term courses versus1st and 2nd-quarter courses, summer terms 1 and 2, and cross-registered courses. Registration after the Change of Program Period Following the Change of Program Period, students wishing to make changes to their schedule must follow the below outlined Registration Procedures. Post Add/Drop Tool For full-term, Public Health classes of the fall and spring semesters only. Following the change of program period, students must obtain approval to either add or drop a course from their schedule. From the close of the change of program period through the “Last day to drop without UW (full-term classes)”, students use the Post Change of Program Period Add/Drop tool in SSOL to request approval for these changes. The Office of the University Registrar created a student user guide (pdf) for the Post Add/Drop tool in SSOL. Requests will be electronically directed to students’ department contacts and OSA for review. Students will be notified via email if approval to add/drop is granted and must return to SSOL to complete the transaction. In-Person Add/Drop For 1st and 2nd-quarter classes of the fall and spring semesters, summer terms 1 and 2, and cross-registered courses. Students will need to complete a paper registration form and obtain approval from both their faculty advisor/department contact and the Office of Student Affairs (OSA) to add/drop courses. Please visit the Office of Student Affairs after obtaining the necessary signatures for a cover letter. Program changes must be made in person. Please also make note of the dates in the academic calendar after which courses may no longer be dropped without the notation of Unofficial Withdrawal (UW) on one’s transcript. Change of Grade Option Students should make note of the dates in the academic calendar after which the grading option for a course may no longer be changed and should review the Student Handbook for applicable uses of a Pass/Fail grade. Should students then wish to change their grading option, they will need to complete a paper registration form and obtain approval from their instructor, department coordinator and the Office of Student Affairs (OSA). Please visit the Office of Student Affairs after obtaining the necessary signatures for a cover letter. Cross Registration Students interested in cross registering, whether a Mailman Student looking to enroll in a class outside of Mailman, or a non-Mailman student looking to enroll in a Mailman School class, should review the cross registration information available in the student handbook. Students with questions or concerns should contact the msph-osa [at] columbia.edu (Office of Students Affairs) for assistance. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Family Size May Influence Cognitive Functioning in Later LifeMay 12 2022 Public Health Leaders Urge SCOTUS to Uphold Roe v. WadeMay 4 2022 Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the WestMay 4 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers