Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Professional Education Menu About Staff Directory Calendar State Authorizations & Licenses Professional Licensure Disclosure by Program Student Resources Student Services and Benefits Online Student Withdrawal Tech Support FAQs Tips for Online Students Academic Integrity Degrees and Programs Continuing Education Department Resources Baylor>Professional Education>Student Resources>Online Student Withdrawal Online Student Withdrawal Withdrawal Process University Withdrawal or Withdrawal refers to discontinuing all classes only for the term in which a student is currently enrolled. A withdrawal occurs after financial settlement, on or after the first day of classes, and prior to the withdrawal deadline (see dates above for Withdrawals Schedules) The withdrawal process includes completing an online withdrawal form and having an exit interview with appropriate program staff before leaving the university for the semester. The effective date of a University Withdrawal is established by the date on which a student initially contacts the university that they wish to withdraw. Under no circumstance does notifying professors or dropping classes constitute an official University Withdrawal. Leaving the University without following the established procedure will result in "Failure" of all courses for which the student is registered. To begin the withdrawal process, complete these steps: Contact your Program Director with your intent to withdraw. Make an appointment for an Exit Interview with your program contact. Complete the online Withdrawal Form. Contact the Student Financial Services Office at (254) 710-2611 or contact the Student Financial Aid office online - to discuss the financial implications of a withdrawal, such as the repayment of loans and future financial aid, including scholarships. If you have questions regarding tuition, refund, or your financial account, please contact the Student Financial Accounts by clicking here or call (254) 710-2311. **If you plan to return to Baylor at a future semester, you will need to contact your program contact. UNSURE WHAT TO DO? Reach out to your program contact for assistance. Designated Program Contacts and Officials Online CSD Venessa Grandjean Venessa_Grandjean@baylor.edu Online DNP/MSN Roberta Black Roberta_Black@baylor.edu Online DPT Nicole Mitchell Nicole_N_Mitchell@baylor.edu Online EdD Cece Lively Cece_Lively@baylor.edu Online MBA Mary Reinhardt Mary_Reinhardt@baylor.edu Online OTD Nicole Mitchell Nicole_N_Mitchell@baylor.edu Online MPH Jasmine Opusunju Jasmine_Opusunju@baylor.edu Online MSW Christen Argueta Christen_Argueta@baylor.edu Online MSCS Daniel Adams Daniel_Adams1@baylor.edu MA School Leadership Julie Baker Julie_L_Baker@baylor.edu Student Resources Student Services and Benefits Online Student Withdrawal Tech Support FAQs Tips for Online Students Academic Integrity General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Professional Education Mailing Address: Baylor University Professional Education One Bear Place #97071 Waco TX 76798-7071 Physical Address: Pat Neff Hall Suite 304 1320 S. 7th St. Waco, TX 76706 Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Staff Directory Calendar State Authorizations & Licenses Professional Licensure Disclosure by Program Student Resources Student Services and Benefits Online Student Withdrawal Tech Support FAQs Tips for Online Students Academic Integrity Degrees and Programs Continuing Education Department Resources