Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Site Navigation By the Numbers Mission & Values People Our History Accreditation Strategic Plan Wellness Podcasts Service & Community Engagement SPH Policies and Guidelines Events Conversations with ... National Public Health Week 2022 Commencement 2022 Commencement 2022 Get the full schedule for Commencement Weekend, May 27-29, 2022, along with details for graduating students and their guests Learn more National Public Health Week April 4-8, 2022 Watch the week's events, including the Barnes Lecture with Gina McCarthy, stream the podcasts, and check out the NPHW resources! Learn more Conversations with ... Dr. Ashish Jha, dean of the School of Public Health and his guests explore various perspectives on the COVID-19 pandemic. Watch now Upcoming Events The School of Public Health follows all Brown University health and safety protocols to ensure the safety of our in-person events. Event attendees, including visitors and guests, must comply with all University policies and protocols in place at the time of the event, including current University policy regarding face masks and coverings (see the University’s COVID-19 Campus Activity Status page for the current policy for both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals). Jun 1 9:00am Common Grounds 121 South Main Street, Room Rm 331 Join us for “Common Grounds” - A Chance to Wake up and Smell the Coffee! We know that hybrid schedules and zoom meetings can affect our sense of community. In addition to the formal events and activities being planned, we’ll be launching a casual, drop-in opportunity to gather. Starting weekly on Wednesday, March 16 at 9am in Rm 331, come join members of the SPH community for socializing, catching up, and grab-and-go-coffee. Students, staff and faculty are welcome. Public health protocols apply. Common Grounds Brown University School of Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, SPH-GSC Jun 1 11:00am - 12:30pm DPHB Academic Grand Rounds: Social (In)Justice and Mental Health Virtual Social (In)Justice and Mental Health Ruth Shim, MD, MPH (she/her) Luke & Grace Kim Professor in Cultural Psychiatry Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences Associate Dean of Diverse and Inclusive Education University of California, Davis School of Medicine Wednesday, June 1, 2022◊ 11:00 am - 12:30 pm Course Link: https://cme-learning.brown.edu/DPHB-21-22 Objectives: At the conclusion of this presentation, participants should be able to: Define social justice, the social determinants of mental health, and mental health inequities; Consider how social injustice contributes to mental health inequities; and Examine the role of social injustice on the field of mental health. DPHB Academic Grand Rounds: Social (In)Justice and Mental Health Jun 2 12:00pm - 1:00pm SPH Teaching Brown Bag Virtual Please join us for a virtual lunch-time workshop on how to integrate community engagement into your public health courses. Thursday, June 2, 2022 | 12 N -1 PM Virtual Format *Zoom link to be provided prior to event Speakers will include Julie Plaut from the Swearer Center and Akilah Dulin from the BSS department who will share how she has incorporated community engagement into her public health courses. SPH faculty are encouraged to share their ideas and questions. RSVP here! SPH Teaching Brown Bag Brown University School of Public Health Jun 2 1:00pm - 2:00pm REDCap Workshop: Automation in REDCap - Using REDCap to Automate Research Tasks Zoom Thank you for registering for the Automation in REDCap - Using REDCap to Automate Research Tasks virtual workshop with Jeff Richardson. The workshop will be on Thursday, June 2, 2022 from 1:00 PM to 2:00 PM EST followed by a 15 minute Q&A. If you have any questions contact me at [email protected] REDCap is designed to be largely self-taught when it comes to the basics. We strongly recommend you view some of the available introductory videos noted below before taking one of our REDCap classes. This way, we can get right down to the business of how REDCap is used in research. Introductory videos can be found here: https://projectredcap.org/resources/videos/ Previous REDCap Workshop recordings can be found on the Advance-CTR website: https://advancectr.brown.edu/events-training/event-recordings REDCap Workshop: Automation in REDCap - Using REDCap to Automate Research Tasks Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Jun 7 12:00pm - 1:00pm SPH Ice Cream Social 121 South Main Street, Room 331 Join us for an SPH Ice Cream Social in appreciation of our students, faculty, and staff! Our Interim Dean Ron Aubert, Academic Dean Megan Ranney, and Executive Dean Sara Walsh will serve scoops to attendees in Room 331 Limited to School of Public Health only Register Here *Please RSVP by June 3, 2022* SPH Ice Cream Social Brown University School of Public Health, Public Health DUG, SPH-GSC Jun 8 11:00am - 12:00pm Child & Adolescent Psychiatry Grand Rounds* Finding the EHR Data to Tell Your Clinical Story: Early Experiences with Lifespan Pediatric Behavioral Health Emergency Services Virtual Finding the EHR Data to Tell Your Clinical Story: Early Experiences with Lifespan Pediatric Behavioral Health Emergency Services Kathleen R. Donise, MD Director, Lifespan Pediatric Behavioral Health Emergency Services Associate Professor, Clinician Educator, Dept. of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Brown University And Elizabeth S. Chen, PhD, FACMI Interim Director of the Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics Associate Professor of Medical Science and Health Services, Policy & Practice Brown University Wednesday, June 8, 2022◊ 11:00 am - 12:00 pm Course Link: https://cme-learning.brown.edu/CA-21-22 Objectives: At the conclusion of this presentation, participants should be able to: Summarize the current state of Pediatric Behavioral Health Emergency Services and need for data-driven approaches to improve services; Describe process and methods for identifying, extracting, managing, and analyzing data from electronic health record (EHR) systems; and Discuss the value of transdisciplinary teams and collaborations for conducting EHR-based projects to support clinical practice, quality improvement, research, and public health. Child & Adolescent Psychiatry Grand Rounds* Finding the EHR Data to Tell Your Clinical Story: Early Experiences with Lifespan Pediatric Behavioral Health Emergency Services Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Physical & Earth Sciences, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Social Sciences Jun 8 3:00pm - 5:00pm CDH Pitch Competition Zoom Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of innovation and entrepreneurship. We have identified 8 teams of innovators within the Brown-Lifespan ecosystem to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership. These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity. Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation! CDH Pitch Competition Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Jun 15 4:00pm - 5:00pm REDCap Drop-in Session Zoom Thank you for registering for the REDCap Drop-in Session with Jeff Richardson. The drop-in session will be on Wednesday, June 15, 2022 from 4:00 PM to 5:00 PM EST. If you have any questions contact me at [email protected] REDCap is designed to be largely self-taught when it comes to the basics. We strongly recommend you view some of the available introductory videos noted below before attending one of the REDCap drop-in sessions. Introductory videos can be found here: https://projectredcap.org/resources/videos/ Previous REDCap Workshop recordings can be found on the Advance-CTR website: https://advancectr.brown.edu/events-training/event-recordings REDCap Drop-in Session Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Jun 21 11:00am - 5:00pm Virtual Institute - Rehabilitation Payment Models: Innovation, Research, Policy Registration is open for the 2022 Virtual Institute! Visit our website to register, see the full agenda, and learn more about the poster call. The poster call deadline has been extended to May 1, 2022. This institute will include discussion of Patient Driven Payment Model (PDPM) / Patient-Driven Groupings Model (PDGM), Bundled Payment, Quality Measures, Alternative Payment Models, Future Research, and more! Virtual Institute - Rehabilitation Payment Models: Innovation, Research, Policy Jun 22 All Day Symposium on Statistics and Data Science in HIV ICERM How to register. Please click on the ‘Apply with Cube’ link below under ‘Application Information’. Once you create a new account, please complete your profile and register for the event. On the registration page, you can indicate whether you are applying for funding or need assistance with travel and lodging. It is important to note that you are asked to upload a CV. You can, however, upload a document describing your name and institution. If you are a graduate student, your advisor can upload your letter of recommendation to https://app.icerm.brown.edu/Cube/advisor Conference description. Research in HIV continues to generate highly complex data structures. Examples include genomic sequences (both host and virus); individual medical records, which include such complications as irregular measurement, missing data, and unstructured text fields; medical images; social network data; and aggregated ‘super cohorts’ such as those coordinated by the IeDEA and CNICS consortia. Even the design and analysis of randomized trials require innovative techniques to enable optimal use of data that can be expensive and labor-intensive to collect. This symposium is designed to bring together statistical and data science researchers either working directly in the area of HIV or whose work has direct relevance to problems and data structures encountered in HIV research. We are particularly interested in engaging data science researchers in fields such as computer science, engineering, and applied mathematics, whose work in related areas might lead to innovative new approaches. Participants will gather for focused activities related to dissemination of new methods, formation of new collaborations, extended discussion to identify new challenges, and engagement of junior investigators. Finally, owing to investments by NIH and other funding agencies, the number of HIV-focused statisticians and data scientists from low- and middle-income countries is growing. The symposium also is designed to promote continued engagement between statistical scientists from the ‘global north’ and ‘global south’. Is there funding available? Yes. We have funding available for graduate students, postdocs, and those coming from low and middle income countries. Is there a virtual option? The conference is in-person but we are working to set up a virtual broadcast of the talks. In person applications will be given priority. Who can I contact with questions about Cube? Please email [email protected] Co-sponsored by Providence-Boston Center for AIDS Research and ICERM https://cfar.med.brown.edu/ Symposium on Statistics and Data Science in HIV Jun 29 12:00pm - 1:00pm BROWN BAG PRESENTATION We are pleased to announce that our June 29th Brown Bag will be presented by Vincent Mor, Ph.D., Florence Pirce Grant University Professor, Professor of Health Services, Policy, and Practice, Lonnita Myles, MBA., Project Director, American Health Care Association, David Gifford, MD, MPH., Clinical Associate Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice; Chief Medical Officer, American Health Care Association and Elizabeth White, APRN, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Health Services, Policy & Practice. The presentation is entitled “Nursing Home EMR Data & the Long-Term Care Data Cooperative” BROWN BAG PRESENTATION Biology, Medicine, Public Health Jul 12 1:00pm - 2:30pm Virtual Grad Fair: This is Public Health Thinking of applying to a graduate school in public health? Join us for a virtual fair! Free to all prospective students and advisors, you will be able to meet and chat with representatives from dozens of public health schools and programs. Brown University School of Public Health’s chat room will be open from 1:00pm-2:30pm EST. Join us and learn more about our public health graduate programs! Virtual Grad Fair: This is Public Health Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Careers, Recruiting, Internships Jul 20 1:00pm - 2:45pm NIH Graduate & Professional School Fair Join our virtual session at the NIH Graduate and Professional School Fair! Learn about our graduate programs, faculty, students, research, curriculum, career services, student life and so much more! This is an incredible opportunity to meet and interact with current faculty, students, and leadership. We want to learn why you’re passionate about public health, so we can take on the challenges of the world together! NIH Graduate & Professional School Fair Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Careers, Recruiting, Internships Sep 13 1:00pm - 2:30pm Virtual Grad Fair: This is Public Health Thinking of applying to a graduate school in public health? Join us for a virtual fair! Free to all prospective students and advisors, you will be able to meet and chat with representatives from dozens of public health schools and programs. Brown University School of Public Health’s chat room will be open from 1:00pm-2:30pm EST. Join us and learn more about our public health graduate programs! Virtual Grad Fair: This is Public Health Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Careers, Recruiting, Internships Nov 15 1:00pm - 2:30pm Virtual Grad Fair: This is Public Health Thinking of applying to a graduate school in public health? Join us for a virtual fair! Free to all prospective students and advisors, you will be able to meet and chat with representatives from dozens of public health schools and programs. Brown University School of Public Health’s chat room will be open from 1:00pm-2:30pm EST. Join us and learn more about our public health graduate programs! Virtual Grad Fair: This is Public Health Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Careers, Recruiting, Internships Jan 10 1:00pm - 2:30pm Virtual Grad Fair: This is Public Health Thinking of applying to a graduate school in public health? Join us for a virtual fair! Free to all prospective students and advisors, you will be able to meet and chat with representatives from dozens of public health schools and programs. Brown University School of Public Health’s chat room will be open from 1:00pm-2:30pm EST. Join us and learn more about our public health graduate programs! Virtual Grad Fair: This is Public Health Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Careers, Recruiting, Internships View full calendar > About By the Numbers Mission & Values People Our History Accreditation Strategic Plan Wellness Podcasts Service & Community Engagement SPH Policies and Guidelines Events Conversations with ... National Public Health Week 2022 Commencement 2022 School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top