Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Career Services Business Services Office Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Services Office of Broader Impacts of Geoscience Research (BIGR) Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Hall of Distinction JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Climate & the Environment Energy Geosciences Marine Geosciences Planetary Sciences & Geobiology Solid Earth & Tectonic Processes Surface & Hydrologic Processes Research Disciplines Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Advising Admissions Internal Transfers Degrees Offered Jackson Scholars Program Honors Program Financial Support Courses & Catalogs Field Experiences Why Geosciences? TNT 2021 Graduate Advising Admissions Degrees Offered EER Graduate Program Find a Supervisor Financial Support Courses & Catalogs External Grants & Scholarships Graduate Studies Committee Advising & Program Coordination Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services Career Center Geology Library Holland Family Student Center People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Employment Opportunities Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Chemical or Physical Hydrogeology Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Structural Geology/Tectonics JSG Community Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Research Scientists Postdocs Staff Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Desk Blogs Texas Geosciences Science Y’all In the News Scientist Profiles Newsletter 2015 Newsletter 2014 Newsletter PDF Archive Media Contacts Events DeFord Lecture Series Master’s Saturday Heads/Chairs on the Future of Undergraduate Geoscience Education Workshop Summit Materials, PowerPoints and Webcast Archive Background Reading Agenda Graduation Distinguished Lectures Association Meetings GSA 2014 SEG 2012 GSA 2012 2011 Meetings DGS Vehicle Reservation Calendar Submit an Event Skip to main content Close Search Bar Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies SearchMake a Gift About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Units Offices Contacts Diversity and Inclusion JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Graduate Advising Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services People JSG Directory Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Employment Opportunities Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Office Blogs In the News Newsletter Media Contacts Events Events Calendar Lectures & Seminars Association Meetings Summits JSG Graduation Menu Home Outreach For K-12 Teachers For K-12 Teachers Programs Curricular Resources Hot Science – Cool Talks Hot Science – Cool Talks provides front row seats to world class science by bringing leading science, technology, engineering and math professionals and their research to the community! Visit with a Paleontologist Non-vertebrate Paleontology Lab visits schools as part of a routine class or special career days. Students and groups are encouraged to visit and become involved with our collections. Contact NPL for more information. Scientist in Residence (SciRes) The Scientist in Residence program partners STEM graduate students and K-12 science teachers to engage students in the excitement of scientific discovery and help graduate students advance their science communication skills. Jamaica Educational Seismic Network (JAESN) JAESN is part of the IRIS Seismographs in Schools program. To see realtime earthquake data collected by stations in the JAESN network, click on “search by network” under the heading “Join our Network!” Texas High School Coastal Monitoring Program The Bureau of Economic Geology engages students and teachers who live along the Texas coast in the study of their natural environment. Secondary Environmental Science K-12 Educator Resources The Environmental Science Institute’s resources are from a variety of programs and sources including the Scientist in Residence Program and Hot Science – Cool Talks series as well as independently funded projects like UTOPIA. Switch Energy Alliance SEA’s global video- and web-based approach engages students and general viewers in a positive conversation to work collaboratively on energy challenges. SEA reaches millions of people of all ages where they live and learn: online, in classrooms, in professional training, and in museums. DIG Texas Instructional Blueprints for Teaching Earth and Space Science The blueprints are pathways through an entire yearlong, capstone level, high school Earth science curriculum. Each blueprint stitches together a set of three-week teaching units with links to curated, carefully reviewed learning experiences and other educational resources. Learning experiences have links to background preparatory materials, additional hands-on resources, teaching tips, and, in some cases, cross-curricular connections. Educators may use each blueprint as laid out, or select and organize different units to create blueprints tailored for their own courses. Educators may also use the blueprints as the inspiration to create their own blueprints. EarthLabs for Educators Funded by NOAA, NASA, and NSF, the EarthLabs collection comprises modules that focus on weather, climate change, the Earth system, and environmental science. The sequence of labs in each module represent active learning experiences that are meant to be a part of integrated instructional units. The collection underscores the crucial need for students, the public, political and business leaders, and scientists to understand our planet, manage its resources and prepare for its future, as well as appreciate its beauty and dynamics as an integrated system. Educational resources in the Climate Modules align with the NGSS, and the TEKS for Earth and Space Science and Environmental Systems Audience: Secondary students. EarthLabs was named one of the ten best climate projects by the White House in 2015. It is the only curriculum project. All About Water The Bureau of Economic Geology provides resources to assist teachers and students in understanding our essential water resources, including groundwater/surface water interactions and the impact of human activity on water systems. Water Exploration Water Exploration uses a challenge-based learning approach to permit students to conduct research and build an understanding about water science and critical water-related issues. All learning activities and resources are packaged into three modules, or Legacy Cycles, in a way that enhances student learning by making use of the Internet and computer technology to promote inquiry learning. The Earth Science Literacy Principles provide the organizing framework for the lessons and activities in each Water Exploration Legacy Cycle. The curriculum is applicable to high school science courses such as Earth and Space Science, Advanced Placement Environmental Science, Biology, Chemistry, and Aquatic Science. Geologic Wonders of Texas Explore the amazing geology of Texas without leaving the classroom. Groundwater: The Lifeblood of Central Texas Groundwater is water that is found underground in the cracks and spaces in soil and rock. Water is stored within an underground body of rock and can be retrieved for human use. There is a finite supply of water on the Earth, but it is continually recycled naturally. Elementary Geologic Wonders of Texas Explore the amazing geology of Texas without leaving the classroom. Environmental Science K-12 Educator Resources The Environmental Science Institute’s resources are from a variety of programs and sources including the Scientist in Residence Program and Hot Science – Cool Talks series as well as independently funded projects like UTOPIA. Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People Events SEP 01 DeFord Lecture | TBD 4:00 PM - 5:00 PM TBD Mailing Address Jackson School of Geosciences 2305 Speedway Stop C1160 Austin, TX 78712-1692 Phone (512) 471-6048 Support JSG Departments & Units Department of Geological Sciences Bureau of Economic Geology Institute for Geophysics Administration & Offices College Leadership Career Services Business Services Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Office Helpful Links UT Austin UT Direct Emergency Information IT Help JSG Directory JSG Profiles Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed © 2022 Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader