Skip to main content Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Business Minors Canfield Business Honors Integrated MPA Student Life Get Involved Canfield Business Honors Challenge Yourself Graduate Back Graduate Master's Programs Master's Programs MPA – Accounting MS Business Analytics MS Finance MS Health Care Transformation MS IT & Management MS Marketing MS Technology Commercialization MBA Programs MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Weekend MBA – Dallas Weekend MBA – Houston Doctoral Take the Next Step Explore Our Graduate Programs Centers & Initiatives Back Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives More than 20 centers and initiatives bring professionals and academics together to advance the future of business. Each one focuses on a critical part of industry, from supply chain management to blockchain and beyond. View All Centers KBH Energy Center for Business, Law, and Policy Supply Chain Management Center AIM Investment Conference Register and Attend Faculty & Research Back Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Research Faculty Directory Departments Departments Accounting Business, Government, & Society Finance Information, Risk, & Operations Management Management Marketing Steven Kachelmeier Named Accounting Chair Read the Full Story Recruiters & Corporations Back Recruiters & Corporations Recruiters Corporations Events Contact & Visit Why McCombs Recruit With Us Learn More Corporate Partners Learn More Alumni Back Alumni Benefits Community Events Awards Give Poised Pioneer Peggy's Story Texas McCombs Presents RSVP About Back About The McCombs Difference Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Invest in McCombs Commencement Contact Coronavirus Life at McCombs Meet the Dean Our Leadership McCombs Centennial Celebrate With Us News & Events Directory Give Contact Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Business Minors Canfield Business Honors Integrated MPA Student Life Get Involved Canfield Business Honors Challenge Yourself Graduate Back Graduate Master's Programs Master's Programs MPA – Accounting MS Business Analytics MS Finance MS Health Care Transformation MS IT & Management MS Marketing MS Technology Commercialization MBA Programs MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Weekend MBA – Dallas Weekend MBA – Houston Doctoral Take the Next Step Explore Our Graduate Programs Centers & Initiatives Back Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives More than 20 centers and initiatives bring professionals and academics together to advance the future of business. Each one focuses on a critical part of industry, from supply chain management to blockchain and beyond. View All Centers KBH Energy Center for Business, Law, and Policy Supply Chain Management Center AIM Investment Conference Register and Attend Faculty & Research Back Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Research Faculty Directory Departments Departments Accounting Business, Government, & Society Finance Information, Risk, & Operations Management Management Marketing Steven Kachelmeier Named Accounting Chair Read the Full Story Recruiters & Corporations Back Recruiters & Corporations Recruiters Corporations Events Contact & Visit Why McCombs Recruit With Us Learn More Corporate Partners Learn More Alumni Back Alumni Benefits Community Events Awards Give Poised Pioneer Peggy's Story Texas McCombs Presents RSVP About Back About The McCombs Difference Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Invest in McCombs Commencement Contact Coronavirus Life at McCombs Meet the Dean Our Leadership McCombs Centennial Celebrate With Us Recruiters and Corporations Recruiters Hire Our Talent Post A Job Hiring Options Interview With Us Connect With Our Students Attend an Event Host an Event Support Programming Meet Our Talent Accounting Consulting Marketing and Consumer Products Energy Financial Services Technology Supply Chain and Operations All Industries Policies and Guidelines Recruiting Statistics Salary Statistics Student Demographics School Rankings Corporate and Foundation Partners Strategic Partnerships and Engagements The Texas McCombs Difference McCombs Dean's Corporate Advisory Council Corporate and Foundations Relations Office Events Meet Our Team Why McCombs Recruiters and CorporationsEvents Events Explore this semester's flagship events and get in touch with our team to build your recruiting strategy. FALL 2022 ENGAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES Bachelors of Business Administration (BBA) BBA Career Week Networking Event Monday, September 12, 3:00 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. Format: In person Join us for a casual and fun new networking event where you will have the opportunity to connect with BBA students in small groups. Register here. BBA Corporate Mock Interviews Tuesday, September 13, 10:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m. Format: In person Representatives from your company interview up to eight BBA students for mock positions and give feedback. Register to participate in BBA Corporate Mock Interviews. McCOMBS CAREER EXPO Wednesday, September 14, 10:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. Format: In person The McCombs Career Expo provides opportunities for employers to recruit full-time and internship candidates at the McCombs School of Business. The Fall 2022 McCombs Career Expo will be hosted in person and focused on the BBA Student population, but open to all current UT Austin students for a portion of the event. Register to participate by August 24. BBA Level Up Engagement Series BBA Level Up Engagement Series this fall. There are three new programs for our employer partners to have the opportunity to deeply engage with our BBA student population during these multi-employer events. Please see more information below: Level Up: Creating Inclusion and Belonging in the Workplace Duration: Academic Year This program offers students insight into employers’ inclusion and belonging programs, resources and leadership goals as well as the skills to operate and collaborate effectively, with a mind-set that transcends geographic and cultural boundaries. Employer partners will share suggested frameworks to build cultures of respect and allyship which students can apply in their campus communities and as future leaders in the workforce. Register by July 15 Level Up: Technical Skills Duration: Academic Year A career upskilling program designed to allow students to explore skills and expertise needed in a variety of technical and analytical roles through experiential learning, trainings, and workshops. Open to any McCombs BBA student, the goal of this series is to successfully support and train all students as they explore career opportunities requiring technical proficiency across all industries. Register by July 15 Level Up: Leadership Skills for Career Success Duration: One Day Leadership Conference (Spring Semester) A one-day conference created to develop student understanding of leadership skills necessary for transitioning successfully into the workforce. This opportunity provides a forum for students to network, learn from employers, and hone in on specific leadership and career development competencies consistent across industries. Register by November 1 Master of Professional Accounting (MPA) MPA Career Lunch Wednesday, August 17, Time TBD Format: In person At the MPA Career Lunch, you will have an assigned table for representatives to interact with students throughout the event to educate them about available career opportunities. We will have a brief presentation that is relevant to students. A brief networking reception at the end of the event provides a chance to connect with additional students. The primary audience is incoming traditional MPA students. MPA Speed Networking (formerly MPA Meet the Firms) Thursday, August 18, 9:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Format: In person MPA Speed Networking provides an opportunity to connect with students in a format that offers both structured speed networking and open networking. The primary audience is incoming traditional MPA students. MPA Industry Night Wednesday, August 31, 4:00 - 8:00 p.m. Format: In person MPA Industry Night offers the opportunity to market your organization to MPA students through a series of mini–information sessions dedicated to industry. After the sessions, students will have the option to connect with all participating employers at a networking reception. It is the perfect venue to inform students about career opportunities within your organization and then meet with them one-on-one. The primary audience is third-year MPA students, though all MPA students are welcome to attend. This event is open to industry employers (e.g. technology, energy, healthcare, consumer goods, etc.). MPA Mock Interview Day Tuesday, September 13, 10:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. Format: In person MPA Mock Interview Day allows you to create a student-friendly image, build your company brand with students, and identify great candidates early by conducting mock interviews to help students improve their interviewing skills. All MPA students are welcome to attend. Half-day or full-day schedules are available If you would like to receive more information about one or more of these events, please email MPAEvents@mccombs.utexas.edu to be added to our MPA email list. Master of Business Administration (MBA) MBA Career Connections September 22 - September 23, 2022 Format: In person Networking Reception Thursday, September 22, evening event Optional: Office Hours / Full-Time Interviews for Graduating Students Friday, September 23 The Texas McCombs MBA Program invites you to mark your calendar for our premier fall recruiting event that offers full-time and internship MBA candidates. This event will provide you access to a pipeline of talent and is the foremost branding opportunity of the semester. Register here. Master of Science Programs (MSBA, MSF, MSITM, MSM) MS August Mock Interviews Friday, August 19 Meet new MS talent and help them improve their interviewing skills! Participating volunteer interviewers will conduct 30-minute one-on-one interviews with students and give them feedback on their performance in the mock interview. All volunteers will be given the complete MS Business Analytics, Finance, Information Technology & Management, and Marketing resume books to see the quality of skills and talent graduating from these programs in May 2023. Sign up to indicate your interest here. MS Industry Fridays Time: 1:30 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. (CT) Format: Virtual August 26 (Consulting): Register here September 16 (Finance): here September 30 (Consumer Goods, Energy, Healthcare, Marketing, Transportation): Register here October 21 (Technology): Register here MS Industry Fridays are designed to introduce and educate students from MS Business Analytics, MS Finance, MS IT & Management, and MS Marketing programs to a variety of industries, roles, and functions related to their degree programs. Employers will share information about their company and opportunities in order to help students gain a better understanding of the careers they want to pursue. These events will be held virtually and the format of these educational events will be informational sessions followed by Q&A time. Companies will meet with multiple small groups during the event. From these sessions, students are looking to understand the industries at a broad level, learn more about what roles are available that match the skills they are obtaining in their specialty one-year masters programs, and learn more about what it is like working for your specific company. EMPLOYER ENGAGEMENT SURVEY  Employer Engagement survey - In addition to registering for the events that are currently open, we invite you to submit more information on the types of events and programming you are interested in engaging. Your responses will allow us to better understand the events and opportunities that you are most interested in and want to be involved with. The University of Texas at Austin will continuously monitor conditions and assess our operational options, and we will update employers if any changes to our current mode of operation are possible or needed. Resources McCombs Online Resources (MOR) Webmail Safety at McCombs Intranet Canvas Tech Support My McCombs What's Happening News Events Big Ideas Research Give Now Get in Touch Contact Marketing, Web, and Communications Faculty Directory Staff Directory Give Now (512) 471-5921 2110 Speedway Austin, TX 78712 Rowling Hall 300 W Martin Luther King Jr Blvd Austin, TX 78712 © 2021 McCombs School of Business, The University of Texas at Austin