Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Working at the U Benefits and Wellness About HR Careers Health Care Positions UM employees - internal applicants (non-students) Staff positions - external applicants Faculty positions - external applicants Temporary/Per Diem Staff Positions FAQs Working at the U Benefits and Wellness About HR Careers Search Working at the U Benefits and Wellness About HR Careers Health Care Positions UM employees - internal applicants (non-students) Staff positions - external applicants Faculty positions - external applicants Temporary/Per Diem Staff Positions FAQs Home Working at The U Learning About the U AAA Learning About the U Explore the following resources to learn more about the University of Miami and living in South Florida. Select a photo below to learn more. UM History A vibrant and diverse academic community, the University of Miami has rapidly progressed to become one of America's top research universities. UM Traditions Learn the history behind UM’s most cherished traditions. UM Athletics A history of greatness. Sports that make the U. Life@TheU Get the latest information for University of Miami faculty and staff. Greater Miami Convention & Visitors Bureau Explore Miami and the Beaches as a prime arts and culture, convention, and for leisure travel. UM Arts & Culture Our talented faculty and student artists are driving innovation through imaginative explorations and modes of expression. Things to do From north to south, above land or below the sea, natural and man-made gems are yours to explore in Miami. South Florida Schools Information on schools and education from around Florida including Broward, Palm Beach and Miami-Dade counties. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Human Resources Coral Gables, FL 33124 Gables/RSMAS: 305-284-3798 Gables/RSMAS: 305-284-3798 Miller School: 305-243-6482 Miller School: 305-243-6482 Benefits and Payroll (Total Rewards) Representative: 305-284-3004 Benefits and Payroll (Total Rewards) Representative: 305-284-3004 Fax: 305-284-8035 Tools & Resources About UM Workday myUM Kronos Performance Management UM Culture Business Development Program EO/Employment Laws Equal Opportunity/ADA UM Network Division of Business and Finance UHealth Hurricane Sports 'Cane Watch Title IX & Gender Equity Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect with Life@theU social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices