HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation FACILITIES Facilities Homepage Fike Recreation Center Featuring Swann Fitness Center Douthit Hills Fitness Center Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex Policies and Procedures Facility Hours Facility Counts Floor Plan FITNESS AND WELLNESS Group Fitness F45 Small Group Training Fitness Assessments Personal Training Wellness Zone INTRAMURAL SPORTS CORE CORE Homepage Register for a Trip Rent Outdoor Equipment Develop Your Skills Request a Custom Trip Apply for a Job Explore Spring Break Trips Explore Winter Break Trips Explore Trips for Incoming Students Contact Us CLUB SPORTS Club Sports Homepage Club Officer Resources Visiting Team Resources Facilities Homepage Fike Recreation Center Featuring Swann Fitness Center Douthit Hills Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex Policies and Procedures Facility Counts Facility Hours Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex The Snow Complex is all about getting outside and is Clemson University’s premiere lake front recreation area, emerging as one of the finest outdoor facilities in the nation. While the complex is open sunrise to sunset, hours vary for the various amenities onsite. View our hours here. Also please check our Facilities Map below. Amenities Andy Quattlebaum Outdoor Education Center (Andy’s)– Home to the CORE program, Andy’s offers adventure trip resources and rentals, a bike repair shop and exceptional lounge space for students to study or relax. It provides a variety of outdoor recreation equipment for enjoyment of the lake and waterfront. Canoes, kayaks, paddleboards, yard games, frisbees, footballs, etc.. may be rented or checked out during open building hours. Turf Fields- LoConte Family Field and Championship Field– Multi-use recreational synthetic turf surfaces support Intramural and Club Sports, and open recreation on Championship Field while Andy’s is open. Beach– A designated swimming area May-September, participants are encouraged to swim within the roped boundaries. A sand volleyball court is available on a first come-first serve basis. Balls and other equipment can be checked out during Andy’s open hours. Future Developments– Softball and multi-use fields plus running trails are included in future phases. A significant enhancement to the beach and water front are also planned. See more information below under Complex Story and Development. Policies Snow Complex General Policies POSSESSION AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON THESE PREMISES IS PROHIBITED. VIOLATORS ARE SUBJECT TO REMOVAL AND/OR LEGAL ACTION. Property is open to all Clemson University students, faculty and staff. A University ID is required for property access. Fires by permit only. Permits issued by Campus Recreation and the Clemson University Fire Department. Pets must remain on a leash at all times. Reservations for the Snow Complex and the Andy Quattlebaum Outdoor Education Center are not being accepted at this time. Emergency phone located at the beach front and in the graveled parking lot. Beach Policies No lifeguard on duty. Swim at your own risk. No diving — feet first entry only. All persons in kayaks, canoes and sailboats must wear Coast Guard approved personal flotation devices. No glass allowed on the beach. Turf Field Policies Moving goals, bleachers and other equipment is prohibited. Painting, chalking, adding or altering lines or tampering with the field turf is prohibited. Food, sunflower seeds, gum, etc.. is prohibited. Drinking beverages should be in a sealed plastic (non-glass) container. Pets are not allowed on turf fields and should not be chained to the fence. No metal cleats. Climbing over the fence is prohibited. Violators will be prosecuted. Complex Story and Development Click here to view details on the development and construction of this ongoing process. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster