COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Applied Mathematics, Doctorate DoctorateApplied Mathematics All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Mathematics, Statistics and Physics Wichita State's Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in applied mathematics program will prepare you for a high-paying, high demand career as a research mathematician in the public or private sectors. The program emphases include applied mathematics, statistics and applied mathematics-physics. Learn how Applied Mathematics is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission to the Ph.D. program in applied mathematics requires: Completion of an undergraduate degree in mathematics, statistics or physics, including coursework in advanced calculus, linear algebra, numerical methods, and either modern algebra or mechanics, electromagnetism and quantum physics. A minimum 3.25 GPA in mathematics, statistics and physics courses A minimum 3.0 GPA for the last 60 credit hours For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum To complete the 84-credit-hour Ph.D. program, students must satisfy course, language and residency requirements, pass the qualifying and preliminary examinations, and write a dissertation containing original research in statistics, applied mathematics-physics or applied mathematics. At least 36 credit hours must be in mathematics, statistics and physics courses numbered above 800. Courses used toward a master's degree may be included. A maximum of 36 credit hours may be transferred from another university at the discretion of the student's committee. View the curriculum Careers Whether you want to pursue graduate study or enter the workforce, a mathematics degree from Wichita State will put you on track to success, leading to careers in a variety of fields, such as: • Government: mathematicians and statisticians • Healthcare: biostatisticians • Research and development • Insurance company actuaries • Education Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Mathematics (Master's) Physics (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©