Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Admissions and Arrival » Apply to UC » DACA Students Set Navigation title in component Cost and Finances Apply to UC Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Apply as a DACA Student In 2012, President Barack Obama created a new policy calling for deferred action for certain undocumented young people who came to the United States as children. That program is known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA. Who qualifies for DACA? The U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services website will help answer some of your questions regarding your immigration status and if you qualify for DACA. There, you can find out more information about the DACA process, background checks, fees, etc. Apply to UC Complete the appropriate application for admission to UC. If you hold DACA status or are in the process of obtaining DACA status, you are classified as an international student by the University of Cincinnati and should apply accordingly. When completing your application, indicate that you are not a US citizen or permanent resident and that your country of citizenship is something other than the US. Once you are admitted to the University of Cincinnati, you will receive communication from UC International asking you to clarify your immigration status. Follow the instructions and provide our office with copies of the following documents: Your passport bibliography page, if you have one A copy of your I-797 Notice of Action (approval notice) from USCIS for your I-821D application for Deferred Action status A copy of your Employment Authorization Document (EAD) Provide the University Registrar’s Office with documentation regarding your sources of support and residential address. Campus + External Resources International Admissions - undergraduate admission applications The Graduate School - graduate admission applications UC International - questions about your immigration documents + status University Registrar - questions about residency status for tuition Counseling + Psychological Services (CAPS) - mental health and counseling services Ethnic Programs + Services - resources and training for DACA students DreamActivist.org United We Dream FAQ Can I be considered an Ohio resident for tuition purposes? right arrow down arrow Applicants must have attended and graduated from an Ohio high school or qualify through one of the various guidelines established by the Ohio Board of Regents. Students living in Indiana and Kentucky may be eligible for Metropolitan or Reciprocity rate tuition programs. For a complete list of the guidelines, visit the residency reciprocity webpage. Your tuition will remain at in-state tuition rates through the duration of your current approved DACA status. Can I complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)? right arrow down arrow DACA students are NOT eligible for federal financial aid. You are eligible for any university-based scholarship or assistantship that is offered. Am I eligible for scholarships as a DACA student? right arrow down arrow Yes, all DACA students are eligible for university based scholarships. Undergraduate student scholarships Graduate student scholarships The Office of Ethnic Programs and Services maintains a list of scholarship opportunities for undocumented students. If DACA is discontinued, do I need to be concerned about being arrested or deported? right arrow down arrow We are hopeful that something will be enacted that will keep you safe and eligible to work. If that doesn’t happen, some government officials have indicated that DACA recipients will not be targeted and deported. Priority for deportation will continue to be on undocumented immigrants who have committed crimes. However, once your current DACA status expires, if new legislation is not enacted, there are no guarantees what the Department of Homeland Security will do to those with expired DACA status. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top