Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information Always Learning Home Alumni Communities Be Curious Be Curious Close Menu Home Communities Be Curious U.S. Huskies International Huskies Living Internationally After Graduation? UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing There’s always something new to learn. Here you’ll find recorded lectures, podcasts, reading lists and more to keep you informed and connected on your own schedule. Looking for live in-person and online lectures and events? Please visit our calendar. Overview List Print Join our email list Close Enter search text to filter tours FILTER: All resources Galleries Podcasts Recorded Lectures Resource Lists UWAA Archives lifelong learning 2019–20 UW Alumni Book Club Archive UWAA is proud to partner with UW Libraries for the launch of this self-paced literary educational experience — with the eclectic reader in mind. Link lifelong learning 2020–2021 UW Alumni Book Club Archive UWAA is proud to partner with UW Libraries for the launch of this self-paced literary educational experience — with the eclectic reader in mind. Link Jackson School of International Studies A Conversation with Congressman Adam Smith on China Congressman Smith shares insights into diplomacy and national security issues. Link Jackson School of International Studies Arctic and International Relations Podcast Series The Arctic and International Relations Series includes publications, video interviews and podcasts. Link UW Libraries Black History Month Challenge A collection of poetry, music, film and books to broaden your understanding of Black history. Link Online Learning BlackPast African American history reference center started by UW professsor Quintard Taylor. Link School of Public Health Building Community Power in Environmental Justice Research and Practice Public health experts discuss what it means to center community expertise in their work to promote environmental health and dismantle systems of oppression. Link Audio Series Career Conversations Relevant talks for your professional development, from building relationships to setting boundaries. Link Diversity at UW Center for Communication, Difference, and Equity Where our community of students, faculty, staff and alumni gather to promote greater equity. Link The Graduate School Coexisting with COVID-19 Lecture Series Recorded lecture series discussing various issues and questions related to COVID-19. Link Improving our environment College of Built Environment Lectures Archive of lectures from the College of Built Environments including the Deans Distinguished Lecture and the Department of Architecture Lecture Series. Link University of Washington College of Education Podcasts Explore podcasts with topics like whiteness, disability and climate science. Link Professional & Continuing Education COVID-19 Career Resource Guide A collection of free guides and videos to provide actionable tips to perfect your resume, showcase your skills, master interviews, grow your connections, pay for your education and more. Link UW Helps Lead the Fight COVID-19 Lectures and Seminars Many UW faculty, staff and students are holding online lectures and seminars on topics related to COVID-19, in addition to sharing their expertise in the news. Link Department of History Digital History Center Explore the past, from a medieval battle to civil rights struggles and more. Link School of law Discovery Podcast Distinguished guests discuss today's biggest social, political and legal issues. Link Information School Documents that Changed the World Podcast series from the UW Information School explores compelling stories of documents throughout history. Link UW Bothell Facing It A podcast about love, loss, and the natural world from professor, Dr. Jennifer Atkinson. Link Henry Art Gallery Henry Digital Gallery View the Henry's collection of contemporary art, photography, costumes and more online. Link Henry Art Gallery Henry SoundCloud A collection of gallery talks and podcasts from the Henry Art Gallery. Link Department of History History Lecture Series Archive UW historians speaking on a range of topics, from Seattle history to world revolutions. Link Simpson Center for the Humanities Keywords A video series where scholars introduce ideas central to their work by talking about keywords that are specialized, complicated, contentious, or ambiguous. Link School of Social Work Leading Lights: UW Social Work Innovators on Creating Systemic Change This eight-part lecture series spotlights some of the UW's most noted scholars who are driving systemic social change. Link UW Tacoma Lightning Talks Celebrate the achievements of UW Tacoma in this collection of 5-7 minute talks. Link Marketing & Communications Marketing for Good Podcast by Erica Mills Barnhart of UW’s Nancy Bell Evans Center on Nonprofits and Philanthropy. Link College of Arts and Sciences Neither Free Nor Fair Political Science Professor James Long launched a podcast focused on election security, featuring experts from the UW and elsewhere. Link iSchool Podcast: Is the internet making us miserable? Three scholars debated the causes of internet misery at a Town Hall in February. Link KEXP Podcasts by KEXP Online list of and acces to KEXP postcasts such as Music that Matters. Link KUOW Podcasts from KUOW Settle in with engaging podcasts like Primed, The Wild and Seattle Now. Link College of Arts and Sciences Praise the Pod A collection of faculty's favorite podcasts related to their field. Link Department of Psychology Psychology Lecture Series This collection of lectures includes new perspectives on willpower and addressing bias. More than 80 videos to choose from. Link Race, equity and justice Race, Equity and Justice Resources Resources to advance diversity, equity, inclusion and anti-racist action at the UW and beyond. Link UW Libraries Racial Justice Reads E-book recommendations from the UW Libraries on the topic of racial justice. Link School of Public Health Racism and Health Equity Leaders examine the systems of power through which we deliver public health — and the drive to change them. Link Watch Now 2022 Legislative Preview Recap: Restoring Public Trust in Higher Education Leaders from higher education and state government come together to discuss the issues. Link Diversity at UW Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center See how the UW serves and empowers historically marginalized and underrepresented students with educational and cultural opportunities for holistic development. Link Simpson Center, Harry Bridges Center and the Center for the Study of the Pacific Northwest Seattle Civil Rights & Labor History Project Collection of essays, interviews and photographs curated by UW faculty, students and the community. Link The Daily Sound Bite Check out podcasts from UW students, with topics like news, sports and dating. Link Society of Women Engineer at UW SWE Explore Learn about the world of engineering through fun at-home activities, panels and recorded lectures. For ages K-12. Link UW Tacoma TAC Talks Inspired by TED Talks, watch UW Tacoma grad students share ideas & get feedback. Link The Jackson School The State of Human Rights in Southeast Asia From climate change to the Duterte regime, UW professors discuss Southeast Asia. Link School of Law Three-Minute Legal Tips: The Power of Sanctions on Russia Anita Ramasastry explains how economic sanctions can cripple the Russian economy. Link Podcast Burke Museum To Hell Creek and Back: The Story of the Tufts-Love T. Rex Learn how a group of researchers and school teachers tracked down the elusive Tyrannosaurus rex in the sweltering badlands of Montana. Link Jackson School of International Studies Trump in the World Lecture Series Lectures on the global impact of U.S government policies under President Trump. Link Department of History Understanding Ukraine: A Reading List Learn about the history of Ukraine, and discover more about the relationship between Ukraine and Russia. Link University Book Store University Book Store Recommended Reading List Suggested readings to help alumni perceive, understand and dismantle institutional racism. Link Student-led UW Film Club Podcast Podcast by student-run Film Club that explores movies of all kinds. Link husky network UW Husky Landing A powerful new professional networking tool for the UW community. Link March 2022 UW Magazine See how the UW is helping to make a better future and celebrating our shared past. https://magazine.washington.edu/ Link Spring 2022 Viewpoint Telling the story of diversity at the University of Washington. Link UW Tacoma Voices Unbound: Enviro-Amplify Voices Unbound explores environmental challenges from the point of view of community researchers from the University of Washington Tacoma Link Cinema & Media Studies What to Stream Right Now: Free Movies for Black Lives Matter! 20 groundbreaking films and television shows by Black directors, many of which celebrate the history and present of Black political resistance. Link UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA