Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Human Resources Retirement Retirement Medicare Social Security Working at SMU Working at SMU Staff Careers Faculty Careers Temporary Jobs Student Jobs Internal Applicant Get Involved Living In Dallas Benefits & Wellness Benefits & Wellness Health and Other Benefits Wellness Information Learning & Development Learning & Development Total Orientation Process for New Employees On-Demand Learning Professional Development Manager Development Workshops Manager Orientation Enrollment Instructions Cancel Enrollment or Switch Sessions Customized Learning Experiences Consultation FAQ for the LawRoom Training Tutorials Workshop Facilitators HR Training Room Linked-In Learning Courses Manager Lunch and Learn Series SMU Program for the Protection of Minors Continuing Education Credits/Units - Proof of Attendance Reference Library Training Summary Resources Resources New Employee Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources Work-Life Resources Manager Resources Retiree Resources Safety at SMU SMU's Mission and Code of Ethics Forms Forms All HR Forms & Resources Benefits Compensation General HR Forms Exiting SMU Performance Review Employee Recognition Talent Acquisition and Management ☰ Human Resources Human Resources Learning & Development Enrollment Instructions Enrollment Instructions Enrollment for Professional Development Workshops and Manager Orientation is facilitated through Self Service in My.SMU. Log in to My.SMU using your 8 digit SMU ID and password. Click on Self Service>Learning and Development. There are currently 3 features you may use in this module. Training Summary You may review a summary of workshops that you have enrolled in, cancelled or completed at any time. Status updates are Enrolled - Cancelled - Completed. Access this information to see if you have already completed a workshop or to confirm your enrollment status. Request Training Enrollment View all available training opportunities offered through the Department of Human Resources. (be patient - this page takes awhile to load!) You may search by any of the options listed, however, the easiest way to start is to search by Course Name. Leave the field blank and search for all available classes. Or if you know the specific name of the course you may enter it. Click on View Available Sessions and then the session number. Confirm that you are available on this day and the course is the right one. Check the box to be added to the waitlist if you would like this option (you will be notified if a space should occur and given the option to be enrolled at that time). Then click Continue at the bottom of the page. Click on Submit to finalize your Request for Training Enrollment. You will receive a confirmation of your request and you may check the status of your request (enrolled, waitlisted, completed, etc.) through the Request Training Status function. Request Training Status This section will summarize the status of your training requests. It indicates who submitted your enrollment request, the date and the status of the request. View current offerings Professional Development Workshops Manager Orientation Workshops Learning & Development Total Orientation Process (TOP) On-Demand Learning Professional Development Opportunities Manager Development Workshops Manager Orientation Enrollment Instructions Cancel Enrollment or Switch Sessions Customized Learning Experiences Consultation FAQ for the LawRoom Training Tutorials HR Facilitators HRTR Request Form Linked-In Learning Manager Lunch and Learn Series SMU Program for the Protection of Minors Continuing Education Credits/Units - Proof of Attendance Reference Library Training Summary Can't find what you need? DevelopU@smu.edu benefitsu@smu.edu 214-768-3311 Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share