Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application New Hire Information All hiring processes for the Fall semester must be completed by September 6, 2022. Students who complete the hiring process after this date will miss the first payroll run and will not receive their September stipend payment until the October payroll run. Any questions regarding the procedures outlined below should be directed to the Human Resources Service Center (HRSC) located at 129 Lake Street. HRSC may be reached by phone: 617-552-4772. Print Open Close For US Citizens and Permanent Residents Instructions for US Citizens and Permanent Residents Bring the following New Hire Forms and ID/Employment Eligibility Documents to the Human Resources Service Center (HRSC) located at 129 Lake Street on the Brighton Campus. Completed I-9 Form Completed M-4 Form Completed W-4 Form In addition, you will need to complete the Boston College 'Payroll Form Statement' and sign up for payroll direct deposit. Details and instructions are linked within the 'Required Forms' tab on Student Services' New Hires website. For International Students Instructions for International Students Register for Courses – Consult your department for information on course registration. Visit the Office of International Students & Scholars in Bowman House at 72 College Road. The OISS will review your visa paperwork and verify that you have registered for courses. You will then be provided with a letter stating your eligibility to work at Boston College and instructions on applying for your Social Security Card. Only after completing Steps 1 and 2, bring the following to HRSC at 129 Lake Street on the Brighton Campus. Completed new hire forms (Section 1 of the I-9 Form, the Personal Data Form, Form W-4, and Form M-4) Original visa paperwork (visa, I-94 card or electronic printout, and I-20 or DS2019) The original letter you received from OISS in Step 2 Social Security Card (If you have not received your SSCard, you may bring your official receipt from the Social Security Office and your Social Security Number). If you have already applied for your Social Security Card, but you do not have your Social Security Card or your official receipt from the Social Security Office and Social Security Number, you should still bring items 3(1) to 3(3) to HRSC at 129 Lake Street on the Brighton Campus. Original documents that establish your identity and employment eligibility. In addition, you will need to complete the Boston College 'Payroll Form Statement' and sign up for payroll direct deposit. Details and instructions are linked within the 'Required Forms' tab on Student Services' New Hires website. Payment Schedule Service Stipends are paid in eight installments during the months of September through December and February through May on the 16th of each month. Please note that there is no payment in January. Direct deposit for stipend payments is required. Non-Service Stipends are typically paid in two installments, September 15 and January 15. Please note that fellowship payments cannot be directly deposited and must be picked up at the Accounts Payable Office at 129 Lake Street on the Brighton Campus. Tax Information Stipends are subject to tax withholding for all students. Fellowships for U.S. Citizens and Permanent Residents of the U.S. are not subject to tax withholding. Although your fellowship is not subject to tax withholding, please note that per Section 117 of the Internal Revenue Code, qualified scholarship aid received in excess of tuition and fees, books, supplies, and equipment required for the program of study is taxable income. Therefore fellowships must be declared during federal income tax filing. Fellowships for International Students may be subject to tax withholding. Please contact the Human Resources Service Center (HRSC) at 617-552-4772 if you have any questions regarding the tax treaty status of your country of citizenship. Although your fellowship may not be subject to tax withholding, please note that per Section 117 of the Internal Revenue Code, qualified scholarship aid received in excess of tuition and fees, books, supplies, and equipment required for the program of study is taxable income. Therefore fellowships must be declared during federal income tax filing. Back To Top Back To Top Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 108 617-552-3265 gsasinfo@bc.edu About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College