Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Parking and ID Services Parking Services Parking Services Parking Portal Account Construction Vehicle Parking Parking with TollTag Parking Alternatives Event and Guest Parking Campus Bus Visit Request Citation Payment or Appeal DART Transit Pass SMU Safety Escort by TAPRIDE Parking Alternatives Parking Alternatives Electric Scooter Guidelines and Parking ID Card Services ID Card Services Request for Sponsored Non-Employee SMU ID SMU ID Cards Information Information Avoiding Citations Students Employees Parents Visitors Parking Alternatives Campus Parking Permits Contact Us ☰ Parking and ID Services Campus Services Parking and ID Services Office Parking Services Parking Services Parking and Transportation Portal The "My Parking Account" portal is your one-stop-shop for all things parking. The "My Parking Account" portal is the place for ordering parking permits, appealing and paying citations, managing your vehicle information and adding your name to parking lot wait lists or Employee DART Passes (employees only). * Please Note: Student Permit sales for 2022-23 will not open until late July 2022. Please check back for updates. Go to Parking Portal Account site TollTag Enrollment for SMU Parking Your TollTag can be used to provide quick access to your parking area. TollTags from Dallas or Houston are supported. Go to the TollTag Enrollment Page Please note - Event and Guest Parking requests as well as Bishop Blvd Parking Requests will move to Stable on January 10th for Campus Community use. Event and Guest Parking Reservations For all other requests for general special event parking including: guest permits, cone space reservations, valet service coordination, and shuttle coordination service. SMU Employees and Students Off-campus groups Bishop Boulevard Parking Reservations To reserve parking for special events on Bishop Boulevard, please note that the reservation subject to availability and is on a first-come, first-serve basis. The form is required to reserve for an event. SMU Employees and Students Off-campus groups Campus Parking Maps: Maps and information are based on the current academic year 2021-22 Interactive Campus Map Campus Parking Map Visitor Parking Map Scheduled Bishop Blvd. Event Parking Map Athletics Game Day Parking Map McFarlin Memorial Auditorium Event Parking East Campus Parking Electric Scooter Permitted Use Areas And Parking Map Parking Services Parking Portal Account Construction Vehicle Parking Parking with TollTag Parking Alternatives Event and Guest Parking Campus Bus Visit Request Citation Payment or Appeal DART Transit Pass SMU Safety Escort by TAPRIDE Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share