Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now News Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Community Health, Infectious Disease, Public Health Education Apr. 20 2022 A University-Community Partnership Established at the Height of COVID Stands the Test of Time What began as a complimentary five-week seminar series on race and health disparities during the height of the pandemic and racial justice protests has become the Learning, Evaluation, and Assessing Resources and Needs in Informational Technology (L.E.A.R.N.I.T.) program, led by a group of dedicated people on the Columbia University Irving Medical School (CUIMC) campus and including community members who continued to participate in meetings after the original series concluded. Volunteer-based, the interdisciplinary team of community members students, faculty, and staff at CUIMC were there from the beginning and played an invaluable role in the creation and evolution of this program. The initial Race & Health seminar series, led by Prof. Robert Fullilove of Columbia Mailman School of Public Health and sponsored by the Columbia Summer Research Institute, was offered in Summer 2020 to Columbia University affiliates and again in Spring 2021 to CU and its community neighbors. The series was attended by not only Columbia faculty, staff, students, and leadership but Upper Manhattan community members and leaders as well. With most of the strategies to prevent COVID-19 dependent upon internet access and smartphone usage; vaccinations and testing in the community last spring were almost impossible to arrange without the help of technology. Motivated by this situation, the program was piloted in July 2021 to overcome these obstacles and, with its great success, L.E.A.R.N.I.T. now offers regular opportunities for members of the Northern Manhattan community to attend workshops designed to impact access to health care in order to understand how best to address and end the digital divide. In addition to addressing technological gaps experienced by marginalized communities, the project focuses on barriers to healthcare access in an increasingly technologically based society and building university-community partnerships. L.E.A.R.N.I.T. holds in-person events during which the team offers monthly one-on-one and/or workshop-based technological support. Participants are also provided with a technology and health resource packet to take home which includes mini-lessons on popular topics that community members have expressed interest in learning as well as health related resources such as vaccination sites and mental health services. “Most heartwarming for me was the response that the Race & Health series received,” said Fullilove, professor of Sociomedical Sciences and Mailman School associate dean for Community and Minority Affairs. “I never expected such an amazing outcome of impactful community collaboration. Simply put, teaching Race and Health has produced one of the most significant town/gown collaborations of my 53 years of higher education experience.” In addition to Fullilove, members of the core leadership team are Julie Glickstein, professor of Pediatrics at Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons; Tina Ting, MPH student at Columbia Mailman School; Jessica Idumonyi, clinical research coordinator at Columbia University Irving Medical Center; and Dave Crenshaw and Al Kurland, community leaders. “If we have learned anything from the COVID pandemic, it is that effective health care requires collaboration between this medical center and the community it serves,” noted Glickstein. “L.E.A.R.N.I.T. is a grassroots project that has highlighted this partnership. It has been a privilege for me to work with such outstanding members of our Washington Heights/Harlem community along with wonderful CUIMC colleagues.” Related Stories Less Than Half of Essential Workers Are Willing to Report to Work During a Serious Pandemic Mapping the Areas Most Vulnerable to COVID-19 Hospitalizations Columbia Public Health Responds to the COVID-19 Pandemic Related Faculty Robert Fullilove Professor Sociomedical Sciences at the Columbia University Medical Center Contact Us Stephanie Berger Phone: 212-305-4372 Email: sb2247@columbia.edu More in Community Health Our Experts Help Explain the Monkeypox Outbreak Columbia University Honors School's Pandemic Leadership Survey Finds High Rates of Depression Among Latin American Health Care Providers Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers