Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School About the Graduate School Academic Events & Honors Events & Series Graduate School Skip to Navigation Events & Series Academy in Context The Academy in Context aims to foster a stronger sense of community among Brown's graduate students. The dinner-seminar series provides a venue for meaningful interactions and discussion on topics of interest across disciplines, typically concerning ethics. Master Words This social media project was created with graduate students and is rooted in words. The Master Words project gives students a channel to talk about how disciplinary aspirations and training shape their perspectives. In this 2015-16 series, the Graduate School invited master's students to reflect on a word and to submit a phone video about what it means to them in their master's program. The videos can be seen on tumblr. Research Matters! This event features short talks by graduate students and alumni on “why my research matters.” After a call for nominations, graduate students are invited to submit a synopsis of their research ideas and a short video of themselves presenting their scholarship. A selection panel, comprising faculty, staff, and graduate students, identify semifinalists and then the final 10-12 student speakers. Home About the Graduate School People Mission & Facts Diversity and Inclusion News & Communications Academic Events & Honors Orientation Commencement Awards Events & Series Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Support Graduate Student Resources Maps & Directions Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants