Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Ophthalmology Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Columbia Glaucoma Screening Program Shows the Benefit of Early Detection If untreated, glaucoma can lead to irreversible vision loss. A Columbia screening program is finding more people with the disease than expected. Topic Campus News Can Nutrient Supplements Prevent Glaucoma? Columbia research has found that simple nutrient supplements, vitamin B3 and pyruvate, may prevent glaucoma. Topic Aging New Focus on Eye Injuries An initiative led by a Columbia ophthalmologist seeks to improve the treatment of eye trauma, a serious but neglected condition second only to cataracts as the most common cause of visual impairment. Steven Rosenberg Returns to Columbia as Director of Pediatric Ophthalmology Steven E. Rosenberg, MD, an expert in strabismus and pediatric ophthalmology, joins Columbia. Topic Campus News Latest News Columbia Begins Vision Screening Program for NYC Public Housing Residents April 27, 2021 Residents of some NYC public housing developments can get free vision screening and eye exams in their building as part of a new study led by Columbia University’s Department of Ophthalmology. Topic Research Gene Discovery Confirms Role of Serine Deficiency in Rare Eye Disease March 22, 2021 Treatments for a rare retinal disease may be on the horizon after a new study identifies gene variants that cause a metabolic deficiency in the eye. Gene Therapy Trial for Age-Related Macular Degeneration Now Open at Columbia March 9, 2021 A clinical trial to test a gene therapy for some patients with dry age-related macular degeneration—a leading cause of blindness in the United States—is underway at Columbia and NewYork-Presbyterian. Topic Campus News Simon John Awarded Sanford and Susan Greenberg Visionary Prize to End Blindness December 18, 2020 Simon John, PhD, professor of ophthalmology, has been awarded the Sanford and Susan Greenberg Visionary Prize for his research on glaucoma. Topic Campus News Ancient Part of Immune System May Underpin Severe COVID August 3, 2020 New genetic and patient analyses suggest severe COVID is linked to overactive complement, one of the immune system’s oldest branches, and excess blood clotting. Topic COVID-19 New Eye Drops May Prevent a Common Cause of Blindness June 29, 2020 New eye drops could prevent vision loss after retinal vein occlusion, a major cause of blindness for millions of adults, a study by Columbia University researchers has found. Topic Neuroscience Drugs to Stop Nearsightedness May Soon Come into Focus November 8, 2019 Columbia researchers have found hundreds of genes linked to nearsightedness, and now they’re using the data to screen for new drugs that can safeguard sharp vision. Columbia Medical Student Receives McDonogh Scholarship January 18, 2019 Vagelos student Emery Jamerson’19 received the 2018 Dr. David K. McDonogh Scholarship in Ophthalmology/ENT, named for the first black Columbia-trained doctor in New York. Topic Campus News Traditional Glaucoma Test Can Miss Severity of the Disease November 15, 2018 The most common tests for glaucoma can underestimate the severity of the condition because they do not detect the presence of central vision loss, ophthalmologists at Columbia have found. Topic Research Shaping the Eye for Perfect Vision October 9, 2018 The discovery of genes that control eye growth gives researchers critical information in the search for drugs that can prevent nearsightedness, the world’s most common eye disorder. Topic Research Pages 1 2 3 4 next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top