Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Medieval Studies About this Program Medieval Studies About this Program About Us Al-Zumar, MS 21, Fol. 3, John Hay Library Faculty in the Program in Medieval Studies all have their primary appointments in regular University departments (see People). Program activities that reach beyond Brown University include the Rhode Island Medieval Circle lecture series, which meets three to four times each semester, and the Graduate Student Medieval Conference, which was founded at Brown and convenes annually at Brown, Yale and the University of Connecticut in rotation. The Program in Medieval Studies offers two concentration tracks: (1) the concentration in Medieval Cultures and (2) the concentration in Late Antique Cultures. History of the Program in Medieval Studies Prior to 1968 there was no formal undergraduate major in Medieval Studies, although many courses in history, arts, and languages dealt with Medieval subjects, and graduate students could take their degrees in Medieval fields. In that year the University adopted the New Curriculum, which allowed undergraduate students to pursue Independent Concentrations on Medieval subjects under the direction of appropriate members of the faculty. Timeline 1968. New Curriculum begins. Students can do Independent Concentrations in Medieval Studies. 1970. The Brown Medieval Group is established with Professor Michel-André Bossy as its first chair. Over the next few years this group changes its name to the Interdepartmental Study Group for Medieval Studies and then to the Medieval Studies Group. 1979. Concentration in Medieval Studies is formally proposed and approved by the Educational Policy Committee. The Committee on Medieval Studies is formed as an official group to oversee the concentration. Professors William Crossgrove and Robert Mathiesen are its first chairs. Fragment, John Hay Library 1980. Medieval Perspectives (now MDVL 0360), an introductory course team-taught by a group of Program faculty on Medieval topics, is offered for the first time. 1983. First Concentrator in Medieval Studies graduates. 1994. Under the leadership of Professor Sheila Bonde, the Committee on Medieval Studies becomes the Program in Medieval Studies. The Program is housed in the Annmary Brown Memorial. 2014. Medieval Studies graduates since 1983 enter diverse professions. Among them, Lisa Fagin Davis, Medieval Studies concentrator Class of 1988, is named Executive Director of the Medieval Academy of America on July 1, 2014. 2015. The theme of MDVL 0360 is "Cities: Medieval Perspectives." Director of the Program in Medieval Studies Mercedes Vaquero Professor of Hispanic Studies Hispanic Studies Box 1961 [email protected] Home About People Undergraduate Concentration Courses Events Resources Print this Page Share this Page Stay Connected with Medieval Studies Program in Medieval Studies/Annmary Brown Memorial Brown University Box 1905 21 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1994 Fax 401-863-2470 [email protected] Calendar Jun 2 All Day Registration period for Summer courses for Brown undergraduates re-opens at 9:00 a.m.EDT and remains open until Wednesday June 22 at 5:00 p.m. EDT Jun 19 All Day Residence halls open. Jun 20 All Day Juneteenth Holiday observed. No University exercises. Jun 20 All Day Summer Session opens. Jun 21 All Day Summer Session classes begin. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory