Skip to main content Faculty Research Clusters Biionix Skip to Section About the Cluster News Projects and Publications Degree Programs Faculty Cluster Lead: Melanie Coathup, Ph.D. Professor of Internal Medicine [email protected] With some of the latest advancements in medicine involving technology that interfaces with and within the body, UCF’s Biionix Cluster is working to make these devices smarter than ever and make sure our bodies safely accept these augmentations. Currently, 25 million U.S. citizens are dependent upon an implantable device to maintain quality and continuity of life. Advances in materials science, medicine, and engineering have allowed us to enter a new phase in our understanding and use of implanted material. No longer are these materials inert substitutes, and increasingly the new implants interface with the body in a deliberately dynamic way. Many clinical challenges remain, and “smart” biomedical devices or novel tissue engineering techniques may hold the solution to revolutionize the diagnosis and treatment of conditions ranging from osteoarthritis to Alzheimer’s disease, as well as contribute to the prevention of disease. UCF’s Biionix Cluster brings together medical scientists and engineers to jumpstart new developments and discoveries that push the future of technology driven patient care into the future. The cluster’s mission is to facilitate pre-clinical and clinical studies that develop novel technologies and therapies targeted to address contemporary unmet clinical needs and to maintain and augment health and wellness. This interdisciplinary Cluster is a collaborative group comprised of 15 faculty, 39 undergraduate, 38 graduate and medical students and 5 post-docs from within UCF’s College of Medicine, Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Orlando Veterans Affairs and Nemours Children’s Hospital. Research.com, a prominent academic platform for scientists, has just published the 2022 Edition of their Ranking of Top 1000 Scientists in the area of Materials Science. Biionix Cluster member and UCF’s Chair of the Department of Materials Science and Engineering Dr. Sudipta Seal has been ranked #787 in the world ranking and #305 in United States. This is an important accomplishment for Dr. Seal, UCF and the Biionix Cluster. VA and Medical City Connections With the UCF College of Medicine helping to anchor Lake Nona’s emerging Medical City, the university is in a unique position to collaborate with the adjacent Orlando Veterans Affairs Medical Center, where prosthetics will play an important role as war veterans are returning home. The Veterans Affairs hospital already has shown interest in working with this cluster, and we have the potential to collaborate with them on research. Limbitless Solutions The international success of UCF’s “Limbitless Solutions” direct support organization indicates strong student interest in biomedical engineering, specifically in prosthetics, which can be cultivated to significantly grow undergraduate and graduate programs at UCF. Leveraging 3D printing and creating custom electronics, the interdisciplinary research laboratory has launched multiple clinical trials with hospitals across the country to assess and improve their bionic solutions — garnering the attention of international companies and public figures alike. This interdisciplinary team now includes student researchers from nine different UCF colleges, ranging from health and sciences to engineering and fine arts. UCF’s Biomedical Hallmark Intelligent prosthetics will dominate the future of biomedical engineering, and it is in UCF’s strategic interest to lead this important domain. Additionally, the new Florida Advanced Manufacturing Center and advanced manufacturing consortium (ICAMR), the Orlando VA Medical Center and Florida Health – all in Lake Nona – and the growing interest by departments, colleges and centers in technology for medicine create unique opportunities to establish a world-class program in biomedical engineering that will cater to local and national organizations. Colleges and Centers involved with Biionix Research: Biionix College of Medicine Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences College of Engineering and Computer Science NanoScience Technology Center Advanced Materials Processing and Analysis Center In The News UCF Researchers Awarded SEED Funding to Investigate Nano and Digital Technologies The projects aim to investigate advancements in communications and bone cell activity in altered gravity. Limbitless Solutions Announces New Collaboration with Adobe Adobe is providing free Creative Cloud product licenses and training to Limbitless team members and committing a $100,000 grant to… UCF 1st in Florida, 6th Nationally for Coveted National Science Foundation CAREER Grants The university saw a record 12 recipients — representing some of the brightest early-career STEM professionals in the nation —this… Biionix Research Projects Manufacturing of Bioresorbable Magnesium Implants Developing Oxygen-Generating Nanomaterials A Smart and Connected Walking Assistive Device Identifying the Role of Residual Muscle for Lower Limb Amputation Clinical Assessment of EMG Prosthetics for Pediatric Congenital Amputees Hybrid Manufacturing Techniques for Increasing Robustness of Prosthetics Hands-Free EMG Control and Training for Vehicles and Wheel Chairs Equipment Evaluation (Post Clinical Pilot) Atlases of Cardiac Microstructure for Computing Myocardial Strains and Stiffness Estimating In Vivo Aggregate Cardiomyocytes Strain by Solving a Computational Model Modeling the Effect of Mechanical Stimuli on Bone Cell Growth Colloidal Systems on Deformable Substrates: Packing and Symmetry Breaking Genetically Engineered Chondrogenic Reporters for Cartilage Tissue Engineering to Enable Drug Discovery and 3D Bioprinting New Clinical Research Will Test Brain’s Ability to Adapt to Advanced Bionic Limbs Publications “In-Vitro Validation of Self-Powered Fontan Circulation for Treatment of Single Ventricle Anomaly”, Alain Kassab, Ph.D., Arka Das, Ph.D., Ray Prather, Ph.D., Eduardo Divo, Ph.D., Michael Farias, Ph.D., William DeCampli, Ph.D., Fluids 6(11), 401: Nov, 2021 “Parametric investigation of an injection-jet self-powered Fontan circulation”, Alain Kassab, Ph.D., Ray Prather, Ph.D., Arka Das, Ph.D., Michael Farias, Ph.D., Eduardo Divo, Ph.D., William DeCampli, Ph.D., Scientific Reports 12:2161: Feb, 2022 “Polymeric Materials for Hemostatic Wound Healing”, Kaitlyn Crawford, Ph.D., Suvash Ghimire, Ph.D., Pritha Sarkar, Ph.D., Kasey Rigby, Ph.D., Aditya Maan, Ph.D., Santanu Mukherjee, Ph.D., Kausik Mukhopadhyay, Ph.D., Pharmaceutics 13(12), 2127: Dec, 2021 “Intrarectal Xyloglucan Administration Reduces Disease Severity in the Dextran Sodium Sulfate Model of Mouse Colitis”, Kaitlyn Crawford, Ph.D., Edward A Ross, Ph.D., Madelyn H Miller, Ph.D., Allison Pacheco, Ph.D., Alicia R Willenberg, Ph.D., Justine T Tigno-Aranjuez, Ph.D., Clin Exp Gastroenterol 14:429-439: Nov, 2021 “Using synthetic data generation to train a cardiac motion tag tracking neural network”, Luigi Perotti, Ph.D., Michael Loecher, Ph.D., Daniel B. Ennis, Ph.D., Medical Image Analysis 74, pp 102223: Sep, 2021 “Computational Fluid Dynamics Study of Cerebral Thromboembolism Risk in Ventricular Assist Device Patients: Effects of Pulsatility and Thrombus Origin”, Alain Kassab, Ph.D., Ray Prather, Ph.D., Eduardo Divo, Ph.D., William M. DeCampli, MD, Ph.D., ASME Journal of Biomechanical Engineering 143(9): 091001: Sep, 2021 “Computational Fluid Dynamics Investigation of the Novel Hybrid Comprehensive Stage II Operation”, Alain Kassab, Ph.D., Marwan Hameed, Ph.D., Ray Prather, Ph.D., Eduardo Divo, Ph.D., David Nykanen, MD, Michael Farias, MD MS MBA, William M. DeCampli, MD, Ph.D., Journal of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery JTCVS Open: Apr, 2021 “Special Issue "Absorbable Metals for Biomedical Applications"”, Mehdi Razavi, Ph.D., Hendra Hermawan, Ph.D., Materials Editorial: Special issue Materials (MDPI), 14, 3835: Jul, 2021 “Meshless modeling of coupled transdermal pharmacokinetics with analytical validation”, Alain Kassab, Ph.D., Anthony M. Khoury, Ph.D., Eduardo Divo, Ph.D.,, Vladimir V. Golubev, Ph.D., Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements 122, 62-74: Jan, 2021 “Cerium oxide nanoparticles protect against irradiation-induced cellular damage while augmenting osteogenesis”, Sudipta Seal, Ph.D., Thomas Kean, Ph.D., Mehdi Razavi, Ph.D., Melanie Coathup, Ph.D., Fei Wei, Ph.D., Craig J. Neal, Ph.D., Tamil Selvan Sakthivel, Ph.D., Materials Science and Engineering: C 126, 112145: Jul, 2021 “Multi-functional cerium oxide nanoparticles regulate inflammation and enhance osteogenesis”, Thomas Kean, Ph.D., Sudipta Seal, Ph.D., Melanie Coathup, Ph.D., Fei Wei, Ph.D., Craig J. Neal, Ph.D., Tamil Selvan Sakthivel, Ph.D., Materials Science and Engineering: C 124, 112041: May, 2021 “Neuromorphic Computing: Growing Perovskite Quantum Dots on Carbon Nanotubes for Neuromorphic Optoelectronic Computing”, Kaitlyn Crawford, Ph.D., Jinxin Li, Ph.D., Priyanka Dwivedi, Ph.D., Kowsik Sambath Kumar, Ph.D., Tania Roy, Ph.D., Jayan Thomas, Ph.D., Advanced Electronic Materials 7: 2170005: Jan, 2021 “Estimating cardiomyofiber strain in vivo by solving a computational model”, Luigi Perotti, Ph.D., Ilya A. Verzhbinsky, Ph.D., Kévin Moulin, Ph.D., Tyler E. Cork, Ph.D., Michael Loecher, Ph.D., Daniel Balzani, Ph.D., Daniel B. Ennis, Ph.D., Medical Image Analysis 68, 101932: Feb, 2021 “Myofiber strain in healthy humans using DENSE and cDTI”, Luigi Perotti, Ph.D., Kévin Moulin, Ph.D., Pierre Croisille, Ph.D., Magalie Viallon, Ph.D., Ilya A. Verzhbinsky, Ph.D., Daniel B. Ennis, Ph.D., Magnetic Resonance in Medicine 86: 277– 292: Feb, 2021 “Incidence of Osteolysis and Aseptic Loosening Following Metal-on-Highly Cross-Linked Polyethylene Hip Arthroplasty: A Systematic Review of Studies with Up to 15-Year Follow-up”, Melanie Coathup, Ph.D., Hannah Prock-Gibbs, BS, Cyrus Anthony Pumilia, BS, Teerin Meckmongkol, MD, Ph.D., John Lovejoy, MD, Aadil Mumith, MBBS, Ph.D., The Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery 103(8), 728-740: Apr, 2021 “Dimensionality analysis of forearm muscle activation for myoelectric control in transradial amputees”, Qiushi Fu, Ph.D., Alexander McClanahan, Ph.D., Matthew Moench, Ph.D., PLoS one 15(12):e0242921: Dec, 2020 “Probing cardiomyocyte mobility with multi-phase cardiac diffusion tensor MRI”, Luigi Perotti, Ph.D., Kévin Moulin, Ph.D., Ilya A. Verzhbinsky, Ph.D., Nyasha G. Maforo, Ph.D., Daniel B. Ennis, Ph.D., PLoS one 15(11), e0241996: Nov, 2020 “Silk fibroin nanofibrous mats for visible sensing of oxidative stress in cutaneous wounds”, Sudipta Seal, Ph.D., Sushant Singh, Ph.D., Gabriela Cortes, Ph.D., Udit Kumar, Ph.D., Tamil S. Sakthivel, Ph.D., Stephen M. Niemiec, Ph.D., Amanda E. Louiselle, Ph.D., Mark Azeltine-Bannerman, Ph.D., Carlos Zgheib, Ph.D., Kenneth W. Liechty, Ph.D., Biomaterials Science 8(21):5900-591: Nov, 2020 “Physioxia Stimulates Extracellular Matrix Deposition and Increases Mechanical Properties of Human Chondrocyte-Derived Tissue-Engineered Cartilage”, Thomas Kean, Ph.D., James E. Dennis, Ph.D., George Adam Whitney, Ph.D., Jyoti Rai, Ph.D., Russell J. Fernandes, Ph.D., Frontiers in Bioengineering and Biotechnology 8, 1281: Nov, 2020 “Controlled Nutrient Delivery to Pancreatic Islets Using Polydopamine-Coated Mesoporous Silica Nanoparticles”, Mehdi Razavi, Ph.D., Rosita Primavera, Ph.D., Bhavesh D. Kevadiya, Ph.D., Jing Wang, Ph.D., Mujib Ullah, Ph.D., Peter Buchwald, Ph.D., Avnesh S. Thakor, Ph.D., Nano Letters 20, 10, 7220–7229: Sep, 2020 “Ceria Nanoparticles Mitigate the Iron Oxidative Toxicity of Human Retinal Pigment Epithelium”, Sudipta Seal, Ph.D., Jason Kieffer, Ph.D., Sushant Singh, Ph.D., Baltej S. Dillon, Ph.D., Udit Kumar, Ph.D., Saad Shaikh, Ph.D., & Son Ho, Ph.D., Cureus 12(8): e9675: Aug, 2020 “Interaction of the craniofacial complex and velopharyngeal musculature on speech resonance in children with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome: An MRI analysis”, Lakshmi Kollara Sunil, Ph.D., Adriane Baylis, Ph.D., Richard Kirschner, MD, David Gregory Bates, MD, Mark Smith, MS, Xiangming Fang, Ph.D., Jamie L. Perry, Ph.D., Journal of Plastic, Reconstructive & Aesthetic Surgery 74(1), 174-182: Aug, 2020 “Effect of hydroxyapatite (HA) nanoparticles shape on biodegradation of Mg/HA nanocomposites processed by high shear solidification/equal channel angular extrusion route”, Mehdi Razavi, Ph.D., Yan Huang, Ph.D., Materials Letters 267: May, 2020 “Biodegradable magnesium bone implants coated with a novel bioceramic nanocomposite”, Mehdi Razavi, Ph.D., Mohammadhossein Fathi, Ph.D., Omid Savabi, Ph.D., Lobat Tayebi, Ph.D., Daryoosh Vashaee, Ph.D., Materials 13(6), 1315: Mar, 2020 “Leveraging 3D printing capacity in times of crisis: recommendations for COVID-19 distributed manufacturing for medical equipment rapid response”, Albert Manero, Ph.D., John Sparkman, Ph.D., The International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health 17(13): Jun, 2020 “Differences in the Tensor Veli Palatini Muscle and Hearing Status in Children With and Without 22q11.2 Deletion Syndrome”, Lakshmi Kollara Sunil, Ph.D., Jamie L. Perry, Ph.D., Katelyn J. Kotarek, Ph.D., Kelly Spoloric, MS, Adriane Baylis, Ph.D., Jonathan M. Grischkan, MD, Richard Kirschner, MD, FAAP, FACS, David Gregory Bates, MD, Mark Smith, MS, RT, R, Ursula Findlen, Ph.D., The Cleft Palate-Craniofacial Journal 57(3), 302-309: Mar, 2020 “Impact of Cranial Base Abnormalities on Cerebellar Volume and the Velopharynx in 22q11.2 Deletion Syndrome”, Lakshmi Kollara Sunil, Ph.D., Abigail E. Haenssler, MS, Adriane Baylis, Ph.D., Jamie L. Perry, Ph.D., Xiangming Fang, Ph.D., Richard Kirschner, MD, The Cleft Palate-Craniofacial Journal 57(4), 412-419: Apr, 2020 “High-Throughput, Temporal and Dose Dependent, Effect of Vitamins and Minerals on Chondrogenesis”, Thomas Kean, Ph.D., James E. Dennis, Ph.D., Taylor Splawn, Ph.D., Frontiers in Cell and Developmental Biology 8:92: Feb, 2020 “A Collagen Based Cryogel Bioscaffold that Generates Oxygen for Islet Transplantation”, Mehdi Razavi, Ph.D., Rosita Primavera, Ph.D., Bhavesh D. Kevadiya, Ph.D., Jing Wang, Ph.D., Mujib Ullah, Ph.D., Peter Buchwald, Ph.D., Avnesh S. Thakor, Ph.D., Advanced Functional Materials 30, 1902463: Feb, 2020 “Utilizing additive manufacturing and gamified virtual simulation in the design of meuroprosthetics to improve pediatric outcomes”, Albert Manero, Ph.D., John Sparkman, Ph.D., MRS Communications Volume 9, Issue 3, pp. 941-947: Sep, 2019 “Transcriptome-wide analysis of human chondrocyte expansion on synoviocyte matrix”, Thomas Kean, Ph.D., Zhongqi Ge, Ph.D., Yumei Li, Ph.D., Rui Chen, Ph.D., James E. Dennis, Ph.D., Cells 8(2):85: Jan, 2019 “Inter-limb transfer of grasp force perception with closed-loop hand prosthesis”, Qiushi Fu, Ph.D., Fangchi Shao, Ph.D., Marco Santello, Ph.D., IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering 27(5):927-936: May, 2019 “Clinical use of inhaled nitric oxide: Local and systemic applications”, Elizabeth Brisbois, Ph.D., Megan Barnes, Ph.D., Elsevier Free Radical Biology and Medicine 152:422-431: May, 2020 Utility of chitosan for 3D printing and bioprinting, Thomas Kean, Ph.D., Maya Thanou, Ph.D. in Sustainable Agriculture Reviews 35 (pp. 271-292). Springer: 2019 “A Lagrangian formulation for interacting particles on a deformable medium”, Luigi Perotti, Ph.D., Sanjay Dharmavaram, Ph.D., Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering Vol. 364, pp. 112949: Jun, 2020 “Real-time 3T MRI-guided cardiovascular catheterization in a porcine model using a glass-fiber epoxy-based guidewire”, Luigi Perotti, Ph.D., Xinzhou Li, Ph.D., Jessica A. Martinez, Ph.D., Sandra M. Duarte-Vogel, Ph.D., Daniel B. Ennis, Ph.D., Holden H. Wu, Ph.D., Plos One 15.2: Feb, 2020 “Estimating aggregate cardiomyocyte strain using in vivo diffusion and displacement encoded MRI”, Luigi Perotti, Ph.D., Ilya A. Verzhbinsky, Ph.D., Kévin Moulin, Ph.D., Tyler E. Cork, Ph.D., Michael Loecher, Ph.D., Daniel B. Ennis, Ph.D., IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging 39(3), 656-667: Mar, 2020 “Kirigami and the Caspar-Klug construction for viral shells with negative Gauss curvature”, Luigi Perotti, Ph.D., Kevin Zhang, Ph.D., Joseph Rudnick, Ph.D., Robijn F. Bruinsma, Ph.D., Physical Review E 99(2), 022413: Feb, 2019 “Improving Fine Control of Grasping Force during Hand–Object Interactions for a Soft Synergy-Inspired Myoelectric Prosthetic”, Qiushi Fu, Ph.D., Marco Santello, Ph.D., Frontiers in Neurorobotics 11, 71: Jan, 2018 “In-silico analysis of outflow graft implantation orientation and cerebral thromboembolism incidence for full LVAD support”, Alain Kassab, Ph.D., Ray Prather, Ph.D., Eduardo Divo, Ph.D., William DeCampli, Ph.D., Computer Methods in Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering: Nov, 2021 Biionix Degree Programs UCF’s Bachelor of Science in Materials Science and Engineering is offered through the Department of Materials Science and Engineering, which is ranked among the top 50 in the nation by U.S. News and World Report. For more programs, search UCF programs below. Search Programs Bachelor of Science in Materials Science and Engineering Biionix Faculty Hwan Choi, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Email [email protected] Melanie Coathup, Ph.D. Professor of Internal Medicine Email [email protected] Kaitlyn Crawford, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering Email [email protected] Qiushi Fu, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Email [email protected] Helen Huang, Ph.D Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Email [email protected] Alain Kassab, Ph.D. Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Email [email protected] Thomas Kean, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine Email [email protected] Albert Manero, Ph.D. CEO Limbitless Solutions Email [email protected] Sean Moore, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Biomedical Sciences Email [email protected] Luigi Perotti, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Email [email protected] Mehdi Razavi, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine Email [email protected] Sudipta Seal, Ph.D. Professor of Materials Science and Engineering Email [email protected] John Sparkman, Ph.D. Limbitless Solutions Email [email protected] Dazhong Wu, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Email [email protected] Wen Shen, Ph.D. Assistant Professor in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Email [email protected] Lakshmi Kollara Sunil, Ph.D. Assistant Professor in the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Email [email protected] UCF Research Clusters Faculty Clusters Home Biionix Cyber Security and Privacy Disability, Aging and Technology (DAT) Genomics and Bioinformatics Learning Sciences Renewable Energy and Chemical Transformation (REACT) Resilient, Intelligent and Sustainable Energy Systems (RISES) Sustainable Coastal Systems Violence Against Women (VAW) Additional Research Links World-class Faculty Research Technology Transfer Ethics and Compliance Research Development Areas of Excellence 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816