Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Navigation Academics Admissions FreshmanTransferInternationalTransient, Non-Degree Seeking and Second Bachelor’sDual Enrollment and Early AdmissionAdmitted StudentsRequest InfoCheck Status Cost and Aid Visit FAQs View All FAQsFreshmanApplication ProcessAdmitted StudentsCost, Fees and Financial AidCampus Visits and ToursHousing and Campus Life Resources For High School StudentsFor ParentsFor CounselorsVirtual Info SessionsAdmission FormsJoin Our Mailing ListContact Us Apply UCF Undergraduate Application First Time in College/Freshman Includes those with any number of college credit earned as dual enrollment during high school. If you are a high school senior (international or domestic), or enrolling in college for the first time, you can apply using either the UCF institutional application or the Common App. UCF has no preference in application and you only need to complete and submit one. The information collected by each is the same. However, the Common App contains essay prompts that are not required by UCF. If you use the Common App, allow three business days after submission for processing and to receive an email confirmation from UCF. Submitting either application for admission requires a $30 nonrefundable fee. UCF Undergraduate Application Apply to UCF using our convenient online application. NOTE: The UCF institutional application and SPARK Form are compatible with Chrome, Firefox, IE and Microsoft Edge. Users have experienced issues viewing, completing and submitting the application when using Safari. Common App Ready to start your Common App? You’ve come to the right place. Other Applicants Transfer, transient, non-degree, second degree and dual enrollment/early admission students must complete and submit the UCF institutional application below. Submitting an application for admission requires a $30 nonrefundable fee. UCF Undergraduate Application Apply to UCF using our convenient online application. Note: The UCF institutional application is compatible with Chrome, Firefox, IE and Microsoft Edge. Users have experienced issues viewing, completing and submitting the application when using Safari. Need more information on applying to UCF? Select what type of student you are and we’ll help direct you to the right resources. Freshman I’m a high school senior, or this will be my first time in college. Transfer I’m currently studying at another college or have earned credits at another school, but I want to attend UCF. International I’m a non-U.S. citizen seeking a bachelor’s degree. Transient, Non-degree or Second Bachelor’s Seeking I’m looking to take classes without working towards a degree at UCF or I wish to pursue a second bachelor’s degree. Dual Enrollment or Early Admission I’m a high school student looking to enroll part time at UCF while finishing high school, or full time at UCF during my senior year. Transfer to a Fully Online Program I’m a college student interested in completing my bachelor’s degree online. Freshman I’m a high school senior, or this will be my first time in college. Transfer I’m currently studying at another college or have earned credits at another school, but I want to attend UCF. International I’m a non-U.S. citizen seeking a bachelor’s degree. Transient, Non-degree or Second Bachelor’s I’m looking to take classes without working towards a degree at UCF or I wish to pursue a second bachelor’s degree. Dual Enrollment and Early Admissions I’m a high school student looking to enroll part time at UCF while finishing high school, or full time at UCF during my senior year. Transfer to a Fully Online Program I’m a college student interested in completing my bachelor’s degree online. Annual security and fire safety report UCF is committed to assisting all members of the community in providing for their own safety and security. As required by federal law (The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, 20 U.S.C.1092(f), known as the “Clery Act”), the university publishes an Annual Security and Fire Safety Report, which contains information regarding campus security, crime reporting policies, personal safety and crime prevention, and fire and crime statistics. Download UCF’s Annual Guide to learn more. You may also request a paper copy by emailing [email protected]. Visit UCF Take a tour of our Orlando campus, and see if UCF is right for you. Tuition & Financial Aid Find opportunities to get help paying for classes and cost of living. FAQs Get application information and deadlines, plus answers to all of your questions. Contact Us Mailing Address P.O. Box 160111 Orlando, FL 32816-0111 Contact Email: [email protected] Phone: 844-376-9160 Fax: 407-823-5625 Business Hours Mon - Fri: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Closed Weekends & Holidays Application Deadlines Freshman Applicants Fall: May 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 Transfer Applicants Fall: July 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 International Applicants Fall: March 1 Spring: September 1 Summer: January 1 More Resources FAQs Admission Forms Accreditation Annual Security Report Accessibility Request Info Let’s Get Social Facebook Twitter