Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Center for Epidemiologic Research Home About Research Affiliated Centers People News Site Navigation Home 2019 Annual SER Meeting - Department of Epidemiology Presentations About Contact Us Research Affiliated Centers The Center for Global Cardiometabolic Health (CGCH) The Center for Reproductive, Perinatal, and Pediatric Research (CRPPR) Center for Children’s Environmental Health (CCEH) People Faculty Staff Trainees News Research Research on etiology involves several large-scale longitudinal projects of representative community-based samples, in some cases followed over decades, to investigate the emergence of disease and disorder as well as the combined influences of environmental, nutritional, social & genetic factors on the incidence and course of these conditions. Randomized clinical trials and other clinical investigations are conducted in collaboration with leading hospitals and other treatment facilities in Rhode Island and throughout the U.S. to investigate the impact of new therapeutic technologies and to add to evidence-based treatment decisions in medicine and public health. Center faculty also collaborate regularly with Rhode Island agencies including the Departments of Health, Human Services, Education and others to assist with statewide analyses of population health and the implementation of population-based prevention efforts. Francesca Beaudoin Interim Department Chair, Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, Associate Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice, Associate Professor of Epidemiology [email protected] Francesca L. Beaudoin MD, MS, PhD is an Associate Professor and Interim Chair of the Department of Epidemiology, and an Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine and Health Services, Policy and Practice. Dr. Read full profile Angela Bengtson Assistant Professor of Epidemiology [email protected] Angela Bengtson's research focuses on improving the health of HIV-infected women and their children during the perinatal period. Her work explores the impact of HIV drugs on pregnancy outcomes, investigates novel strategies to measure and support ongoing engagement in HIV care, and addresses common comorbid conditions with HIV during pregnancy, including obesity and perinatal depression. Read full profile Stephen Buka Professor of Epidemiology [email protected] Stephen Buka, Sc.D., M.Sc., M.A., is an epidemiologist and developmental psychologist whose work focuses on the causes, development and prevention of major psychiatric and cognitive disorders. Read full profile Alison Field Professor of Epidemiology, Professor of Pediatrics [email protected] Alison Field, Sc.D., is public health researcher specializing in nutritional, pediatric, and psychiatric epidemiology. Her current research focuses on determining the optimal classification for obesity, designing a mobile app to measure cues to eat, identifying predictors of overuse and ACL injuries in adolescents, and examining risk factors for developing migraine in adolescence or young adulthood. Read full profile Chanelle Howe Associate Professor of Epidemiology, Epidemiology Master's Program Director [email protected] Chanelle Howe, Ph.D., is interested in methods, infectious diseases, and health disparities. Howe's methodologically focused research interests include improving understanding of potential sources of bias as well as better characterizing, adapting, and illustrating the use of advanced quantitative methods to promote accurate inference. Read full profile Simin Liu Professor of Epidemiology, Professor of Surgery, Professor of Medicine [email protected] Dr. Simin Liu's research focuses on the etiology of chronic diseases with emphasis on identifying nutritional and molecular strategies to improve health outcomes in diverse populations globally. Read full profile Eric Loucks Associate Professor of Epidemiology, Director of the Mindfulness Center , Associate Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences, Associate Professor of Medicine Eric Loucks, Ph.D., is a cardiovascular physiologist and social epidemiologist, whose research agenda focuses on elucidating biological mechanisms, by which social and psychosocial factors may influence cardiovascular disease. Read full profile Brandon Marshall Associate Professor of Epidemiology [email protected] Brandon Marshall’s research interests focus on substance use epidemiology, infectious diseases, and the social, environmental, and structural determinants of health of urban populations. In particular, he works to inform public health and policy interventions that improve the health of people who use drugs. Read full profile Deborah Pearlman Associate Professor of the Practice of Epidemiology [email protected] Deborah Pearlman, Ph.D., has substantive research interests in advancing a deeper understanding of how fundamental causes of disparity influence health over the lifespan. Her research examines the independent and joint effects of race/ethnicity, gender, and socioeconomic position on potentially preventable chronic diseases, such as diabetes, heart disease and asthma. Read full profile David Savitz Director of the Center for Epidemiologic Research, Professor of Epidemiology, Pediatrics, and Obstetrics & Gynecology, Associate Dean for Research [email protected] David Savitz's research is focused on reproductive and environmental epidemiology. He has conducted studies of the causes of adverse pregnancy outcome, including miscarriage and preterm birth, as well as pregnancy complications, birth defects, and child health problems. Read full profile Center for Epidemiologic Research Center for Epidemiologic Research Brown University Box G-S121-2 121 South Main Street 2nd Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2918 Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top