Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Business Graduate Programs Menu Business Home MBA Full-Time MBA EMBA Dallas Online MBA Specialized Master's Degrees Master of Accountancy & Master of Tax Master of Information Systems Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Economics Army-Baylor Programs Admissions Admissions Contact About Army-Baylor Program Overview Program Philosophy Competency Based Education Student Outcomes Army-Baylor Program History Residency Program Residency Sites Residency Manual Preceptor Training Curriculum MHA Curriculum MHA/MBA Curriculum ECL MHA Curriculum ECL MHA/MBA Curriculum Faculty Directory Teresa S. Hinnerichs Michael Whiddon Allen Solenberg Lorena A. Bailey Bruce W. Barnes III Kimberly Decker Mike Frankel Austin Haag Mark Nikont Dan M. Wood Jose Mauricio Jimenez Garrett W. Larson Steve Schwab A. David Mangelsdorff Karin Waugh Zucker Staff Directory Rene L. Pryor Jennifer F. Russell Faculty Awards and Research Previous Recipients Faculty Research Student Awards Previous Recipients Army-Baylor News Army-Baylor Alumni Army-Baylor Alumni Network Join the Army-Baylor Alumni Network Update your Army-Baylor Alumni Network Contact Information Give to the Army Baylor Alumni Network Army-Baylor Events Doctoral Programs Entrepreneurship PhD Information Systems PhD Health Services Research PhD Admissions Baylor>Business Graduate Programs>Army-Baylor Programs>Student Awards Student Awards Army-Baylor Program Director’s Chair Award The program director selects one didactic year student annually who has demonstrated the most potential for future success in the federal health sector. The award recipient receives a coveted director’s chair that is engraved with the Baylor University seal and personalized with their name. This award has been made possible by Brigadier General (retired) Donald B. Wagner, Medical Service Corps, U.S. Air Force. Donald Wagner earned a B.S. degree in physical therapy from the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University in 1952 and an M.H.A. degree from the Army-Baylor University program in 1960. Mr. Wagner and his wife have four children: Kimberly, David, Susan and John. J. Dewey Lutes Peer Research Award The Army-Baylor University Graduate Program in Health & Business Administration has informally established the J. Dewey Lutes Peer Research Award, recognizing excellence in student research. The award was established in 1987 and named after J. Dewey Lutes, FACHA, the primary founder and the first Director-General of the ACHA (now ACHE) from 1933 to 1937. Michael S. Franz Alumni Award This award is presented to the student whom the faculty deems has best demonstrated academic proficiency, leadership, and participation in class and community activities. This award is presented at the Closing Ceremony at the conclusion of the didactic phase. Peter T. Shaul Peer Award This award is presented by the class to the class member(s) who, in the opinion of the class, has done the most to contribute to the overall welfare of the class during the didactic curriculum. This award is presented at the Closing Ceremony at the conclusion of the didactic phase. Boone Powell Award for Excellence in Student Research This award is presented annually to the student who, in the opinion of the faculty, has compiled the most outstanding graduate management portfolio developed during the residency year. The award was initiated by Mr. Boone Powell, a scholar, long-time friend and faculty member of the Program, and is continued by the Army-Baylor University Alumni Club. COL Richard Harder Award This award is presented to the student who submits the top Best Practice from the residency year, as voted on by faculty. The award is named for former program director of the Army Baylor program, COL Richard Harder. COL Harder’s efforts to continually develop the Army Baylor program are in keeping with the nature of this award - focused on the long term improvement of the military healthcare system. The recipient of this award will be asked to present at a national forum to be determined. Previous Recipients Army-Baylor Programs Admissions Admissions Contact About Army-Baylor Program Overview Program Philosophy Competency Based Education Student Outcomes Army-Baylor Program History Residency Program Residency Sites Residency Manual Preceptor Training Curriculum MHA Curriculum MHA/MBA Curriculum ECL MHA Curriculum ECL MHA/MBA Curriculum Faculty Directory Teresa S. Hinnerichs Michael Whiddon Allen Solenberg Lorena A. Bailey Bruce W. Barnes III Kimberly Decker Mike Frankel Austin Haag Mark Nikont Dan M. Wood Jose Mauricio Jimenez Garrett W. Larson Steve Schwab A. David Mangelsdorff Karin Waugh Zucker Staff Directory Rene L. Pryor Jennifer F. Russell Faculty Awards and Research Previous Recipients Faculty Research Student Awards Previous Recipients Army-Baylor News Army-Baylor Alumni Army-Baylor Alumni Network Join the Army-Baylor Alumni Network Update your Army-Baylor Alumni Network Contact Information Give to the Army Baylor Alumni Network Army-Baylor Events General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Hankamer School of Business About the Business School Directory Events News Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Business Home MBA Full-Time MBA EMBA Dallas Online MBA Specialized Master's Degrees Master of Accountancy & Master of Tax Master of Information Systems Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Economics Army-Baylor Programs Admissions Admissions Contact About Army-Baylor Program Overview Program Philosophy Competency Based Education Student Outcomes Army-Baylor Program History Residency Program Residency Sites Residency Manual Preceptor Training Curriculum MHA Curriculum MHA/MBA Curriculum ECL MHA Curriculum ECL MHA/MBA Curriculum Faculty Directory Teresa S. Hinnerichs Michael Whiddon Allen Solenberg Lorena A. Bailey Bruce W. Barnes III Kimberly Decker Mike Frankel Austin Haag Mark Nikont Dan M. Wood Jose Mauricio Jimenez Garrett W. Larson Steve Schwab A. David Mangelsdorff Karin Waugh Zucker Staff Directory Rene L. Pryor Jennifer F. Russell Faculty Awards and Research Previous Recipients Faculty Research Student Awards Previous Recipients Army-Baylor News Army-Baylor Alumni Army-Baylor Alumni Network Join the Army-Baylor Alumni Network Update your Army-Baylor Alumni Network Contact Information Give to the Army Baylor Alumni Network Army-Baylor Events Doctoral Programs Entrepreneurship PhD Information Systems PhD Health Services Research PhD Admissions