Skip to main content Latest COVID information W crest logo for the university Menu menu close Search People and Pages search closeOpen search This search returns up to five matches as you type. The matches can be found immediately after the search input field.Search People and Pages Search Main Menu Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Athletics About UW Utility Menu MyUW open dropdown menu close dropdown menu MyUW home Email/calendar Canvas Box Google Apps Libraries Map News Visit Apply Jobs Give Academics A major for every passion, a degree for every dream At UW–Madison you’ll find your fit. Our campus offers some 600 undergraduate and graduate majors and more than 9,000 courses — from accounting to zoology and everything in between. Whether you’re decided or still discovering, we’ll help match your dream to your degree. Majors and certificates Course guide Graduate programs Schools and colleges Active, collaborative, reflective: learning, the UW way Intellectual and personal growth The Wisconsin Experience is our vision to create thoughtful, well-rounded citizens by recognizing that essential learning happens both inside and outside the classroom. Learn about The Wisconsin Experience Tight-knit communities First-Year Interest Groups are small learning communities that provide an immersive educational experience, assigning residential living around shared themes and interests. Explore First-Year Interest Groups A global education UW–Madison is your gateway to the world: our life-changing study abroad programs span some 60 countries and six continents. Find study abroad opportunities Our world-class faculty focus on student success 47,932 Student population 32 Average class size 9,110 Courses 3.89 Years to earn degree I feel like the faculty here really care about my future success... Everybody is willing to introduce me to their colleagues and brag about my accomplishments for me. Julia Martien, 2021 recipient of the Jennifer L. Reed Bioenergy Science Award for early career contributions, is a scientist and graduate student in bacteriology. Learn more about Julia Resources Academic advising Academic calendar Departments and programs Registrar Schools and colleges Undergraduate research Footer links Popular Academic calendar Campus map Directory search Facts and figures Jobs Majors and certificates Tuition and fees Resources Alumni Business and industry Faculty and staff International Parents Researchers Students Quick links Accessibility Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Governance Policies Safety Support UW Title IX Footer Crest envelope Contact us facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram ©2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System | Privacy notice | Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: web@umark.wisc.edu