Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News Hoxworth Blood Center and Cincinnati Bengals partner for blood... May 26, 2022 Hoxworth Blood Center, University of Cincinnati, and the Cincinnati Bengals are once again teaming up to host a blood drive at Paul Brown Stadium, 10 a.m.-4 p.m., Tuesday, May 31, in the East Club Lounge. All donors who roll up a sleeve will receive an exclusive “It Is Us” Bengals T-shirt. Free parking will be available on the East Plaza. Hoxworth Blood Center and Cincinnati MINI partner to launch... May 24, 2022 Hoxworth Blood Center and Cincinnati MINI partner to launch #DonateToDrive promotion, awarding one lifesaving blood or platelet donor with a custom 2023 MINI Cooper. New sites available now on Bearcats Landing April 27, 2022 UC’s faculty and staff intranet, Bearcats Landing, increases transparency, facilitates common business practices, and provides a platform for university-wide internal communication. Learn about the new sites launching this Spring Semester 2022. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Hoxworth Blood Center and Cincinnati Bengals partner for blood... May 26, 2022 Hoxworth Blood Center, University of Cincinnati, and the Cincinnati Bengals are once again teaming up to host a blood drive at Paul Brown Stadium, 10 a.m.-4 p.m., Tuesday, May 31, in the East Club Lounge. All donors who roll up a sleeve will receive an exclusive “It Is Us” Bengals T-shirt. Free parking will be available on the East Plaza. Hoxworth Blood Center and Cincinnati MINI partner to launch... May 24, 2022 Hoxworth Blood Center and Cincinnati MINI partner to launch #DonateToDrive promotion, awarding one lifesaving blood or platelet donor with a custom 2023 MINI Cooper. New sites available now on Bearcats Landing April 27, 2022 UC’s faculty and staff intranet, Bearcats Landing, increases transparency, facilitates common business practices, and provides a platform for university-wide internal communication. Learn about the new sites launching this Spring Semester 2022. Pullover and save a life April 25, 2022 Hoxworth Blood Center, University of Cincinnati, closes out April with an exclusive gift for all blood donors. Donors who roll up a sleeve at a Hoxworth Neighborhood Donor Center between Monday, April 25 and Friday, April 29 will receive a Hoxworth quarter-zip pullover. Lifesaving as an art April 12, 2022 Cincinnati Arts Association and the Music Hall resident companies celebrated their recent recognition from America’s Blood Centers (ABC) for the Most Outstanding Blood Drive of the Year at Hoxworth Blood Center Monday morning. Be a #LifesavingBearcat, roll up your sleeve and donate at UC... April 8, 2022 Hoxworth Blood Center, University of Cincinnati, is calling on the Bearcat community to help support the local blood supply by donating blood at the all-campus blood drive. Students, faculty, staff and fans of UC who donate between Tuesday, April 12 and Friday, April 16 will receive a limited-edition Cincinnati fanny pack. Hoxworth Blood Center offering free zoo tickets to blood donors April 1, 2022 Hoxworth Blood Center is offering free zoo tickets to donors. UC research shows renewed promise for COVID-19 convalescent... March 31, 2022 Research from UC shows renewed hope in reducing hospitalizations from COVID-19 through the use of convalescent plasma when given early in the disease course. The study was published in the New England Journal of Medicine. Hoxworth celebrates March with exclusive gift for donors March 4, 2022 Hoxworth Blood Center is celebrating the month of March with exclusive 3-in-1 tumbler/koozies for all donors Storm Bratchett Memorial Blood Drive March 3-4 March 3, 2022 Hoxworth Blood Center hosts 13th annual Storm Bratchett Memorial Blood Drive Lifesaving as an art February 28, 2022 Local Arts organizations blood drive and national award celebration Go for the gold during Hoxworth’s Platelet Olympics event February 16, 2022 Hoxworth Blood Center invites donors to “go for the gold” in the Hoxworth Winter Platelet Olympics. Hoxworth Donor Centers closing for winter storm February 2, 2022 Due to the predicted winter storm, Hoxworth Blood Center will close all Neighborhood Donor Centers and Blood Drives on Thursday, February 3. Hoxworth issues critical appeal for blood donors November 8, 2021 Hoxworth Blood Center at the University of Cincinnati has announced a critical appeal for Type O blood. All eligible individuals are being asked to donate blood immediately. Hoxworth Blood Center kicks off new school year with UC... September 15, 2021 Hoxworth Blood Center, University of Cincinnati is calling on the Bearcat community to start the new school year the right way by donating blood. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top