Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Emergency and Sports Injury Management Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Emergency and Sports Injury Management Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Visit Request More Info Emergency and Sports Injury Management Certificate (Undergraduate) Accreditation Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Emergency and Sports Injury Management Learn to assess, outline and review management procedures for specific sports injuries of the head, neck and spine with the Emergency and Sports Injury Management Certificate (Undergraduate) in the College of Public Health. This 12-credit undergraduate certificate teaches students to describe and implement musculoskeletal assessment techniques. You’ll also gain valuable experience and knowledge for potential careers in healthcare and prepare to take the National Registry EMT certification exam. The Emergency and Sports Injury Management Certificate program also provides in-depth training in assessment and extra- and pre-hospital management of sports injuries in an interprofessional manner. You will have the opportunity to develop skills extracting and immobilizing mock patients from challenging scenarios, including gymnastics foam pits and an ice hockey rink. Additionally, you will gain further insight into the pathophysiology of many of the common illnesses likely encountered as a health professional. The Undergraduate Certificate in Emergency Sports Injury Management presents an opportunity for students in pre-health majors to gain experience in emergency medicine and foundational knowledge for future graduate programs. Potential future career paths include emergency responder, physical therapist and sports injury specialist, among many others. Classes & Curriculum The curriculum for the Emergency and Sports Injury Management Undergraduate Certificate comprises 12 credit hours, with classes offered in person on Temple’s Main Campus. You may take up to three semesters to complete the program. The courses required to complete this certificate include the following. Basic Assessment of Musculoskeletal Injuries Emergency Medical Technician Injuries to the Head, Neck and Spine in Sport Introduction to Pathophysiology For questions regarding the program’s curriculum, please contact Wendy Cheesman, program director of the Emergency and Sports Injury Management Certificate (Undergraduate), at wendy.cheesman@temple.edu. Related Graduate Degrees Athletic Training DAT Athletic Training MSAT Biomedical Sciences MS* Occupational Therapy OTD Physical Therapy DPT Physician Assistant MMS* Recreational Therapy MS *Lewis Katz School of Medicine Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors The College of Public Health offers extensive, personalized advising services to students in each department. Our advising staff will work with you to set goals and help you reach your academic potential. Meet our academic advisors. Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Study Away Become an informed, active global citizen and enrich your education by studying away. Explore Temple’s study abroad opportunities, including information about specific programs and visas, as well as resources on cultural adaptation, diversity matters, and health and safety. Learn more about studying away. HP-ESIM-CERT Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Emergency and Sports Injury Management Certificate (Undergraduate) Accreditation Admissions Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info