Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Departments Epidemiology Research Infectious Disease Epidemiology Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Chronic Disease Epidemiology Environmental Epidemiology Infectious Disease Epidemiology Injury Epidemiology Neuroepidemiology Psychiatric Epidemiology Social and Spatial Epidemiology Substance Use Epidemiology Chronic Disease Epidemiology Environmental Epidemiology Infectious Disease Epidemiology Injury Epidemiology Neuroepidemiology Psychiatric Epidemiology Social and Spatial Epidemiology Substance Use Epidemiology Infectious Disease Epidemiology Photo Credit: UK Department for International Development Infectious diseases continue to have a substantial impact on the health of communities around the world. From the global HIV and tuberculosis (TB) epidemics, to the threat of resistant bacteria, to the challenge of emerging and newly identified pathogens. All compel the need for new methods to detect such pathogens, to understand their pathogenesis, and to devise effective interventions for their prevention and control. Emerging molecular methods are critical for future efforts researching the epidemiology of infectious diseases. Traditional case control and cohort studies will be necessary to define the role of such pathogens in disease causality. In addition, a deepening of the understanding of the complexity of factors that determine risk and susceptibility to various infectious diseases is necessary for the design of appropriate interventions. Moreover, exciting opportunities exist at the interface of communicable and non-communicable diseases, offering new and expanding research agendas. The infectious disease epidemiology unit encompasses domestic and global work on the epidemiology of emerging and re-emerging infections, global infectious disease threats, disease surveillance, disease detection, development of vaccines and other prevention methods, clinical trials, and the role of infectious pathogens in the pathogenesis of chronic non-communicable diseases (such as cancer and cardiovascular disease). The focus is broad, ranging from the search for novel pathogens using advanced molecular techniques to longitudinal population-based studies to define transmission dynamics and spectrum of disease and survival. Approaches are employed in an interdisciplinary fashion to define etiology, pathogenesis, transmission, and prevention/treatment potentials. The infectious disease epidemiology unit is home to the faculty of several centers and includes several large-scale projects. Affiliated faculty members play a substantial role in the intellectual life of the unit, conducting collaborative research, organizing interdisciplinary seminars, and providing mentorship to students and junior faculty. The unit holds a monthly seminar, sponsors a highly popular certificate in infectious disease epidemiology, and teaches several courses open to the department. Selected projects Emerging Pandemic Threats PREDICT, a large program funded by the U.S. Agency for International Development’s Emerging Pandemic Threats Program, is developing a global warning system for newly emerging diseases and to anticipate and assess emerging infectious diseases that move between animals and people to prevent the next global pandemic. PHARM-Link PHARM-Link Studies, which are funded by the National Institute on Drug Abuse, include large-scale pharmacy-based interventions aimed at connecting drug users and other high-risk populations to medical care and social services, using pharmacies as an HIV-testing venue, and most recently, using pharmacies to help drug users gain access to antiretroviral therapy to help prevent HIV acquisition using a pharmacist-clinician partnership. These studies use a community-based participatory research model and target the individual, social, and structural environment. Affiliated Centers and Programs ICAP Center for Infection and Immunity The Centre for AIDS Program Research in South Africa Epidemiology Training Opportunities Global HIV Implementation Science Research Training Fellowship Infection Disease Epidemiology Unit Faculty Unit leader: Wafaa El-Sadr Quarraisha Abdool Karim Salim S. Abdool Karim Elaine Abrams Thomas Briese Jennifer Calder Mary Ann Chiasson Batya Elul Rachel Gordon Tiffany G. Harris yh154 [at] columbia.edu (Yael Hirsch-Moverman) Susie Hoffman Mady Hornig Andrea Howard Jessica Justman Louise Kuhn Maria Lahuerta Matthew Lamb Elaine L. Larson W. Ian Lipkin Barun Mathema Maureen Miller Stephen S. Morse Harriet Nuwagaba-Biribonwoha Max O’Donnell Miriam Rabkin Neil W. Schluger Rupak Shivakoti sm3966 [at] columbia.edu (Susan Michaels Strasser) Awash Teklehaimanot Wan Yang For more information about the infectious disease epidemiology research unit contact infectious-disease.epidemiology [at] columbia.edu More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Memorial Event Celebrates the Life of Zena SteinApr 27 2022 Bronx Gets Another Boost Toward a Clean Air FutureApr 25 2022 Study Examines Resilience of Immigrant Youth in Various Living ArrangementsApr 22 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers