Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index University Career Center Menu Search TTU University Career Center Job Search COVID-19 Career Resources Below is a collection of helpful information and links to assist you with your career and professional development in a virtual environment. Disclaimer – The resources below are not all endorsed by the University Career Center. Our goal is to provide you with as much information as possible to help you navigate a job or internship search during the COVID-19 pandemic. Some resources are crowd-sourced and it is possible that information is outdated or no longer applicable. Students should conduct their own due diligence to determine content validity. If you find something that is incorrect, please bring it to our attention by contacting Monica Gomez. University Career Center Resources View a collection of recorded webinars for you to watch on your schedule on the UCC Youtube Channel! Hire Red Raiders Job Board Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships CareerShift COVID-19 Impacted Hiring Vault Coronavirus Resources Optimal Resume: Resume Builder & Interview Prep Candid Career: Career Exploration & Skills Development Videos Texas Career Development Association Resources The Texas Career Development Association in coordination with the Texas Tech University Career Center has created a list of resources for those seeking employment during and post COVID-19. View the list! Job Boards/Websites Offering Remote Jobs or Internships This listing contains job boards and websites dedicated to virtual/remote internship and job opportunities, as well as information and keyword search tips on how to find remote/virtual opportunities on traditional job board websites such as Indeed, Handshake, and Monster. Information & Articles on Who's Hiring Now Candor: User-generated list of companies still hiring or freezing hiring Still Hiring: A curated list of stellar organizations that are #stillhiring. CareerEco: Connect with employers, grad schools, and other professional organizations through this virtual career fair platform. 500 Companies Hiring Students on Handshake Right Now (Handshake) Here's who's hiring right now (LinkedIn) Who is hiring during the coronavirus? Try these industries if you need a job now (Fast Company) Top 100 companies with remote jobs in 2020 (Flex Jobs) 25+ best sites for finding remote work online in 2020 (Skillcrush) Five best places to find remote jobs (Workplaceless – blog) 18 best remote job boards in 2020 (Career Sidekick) 10 Jobs That Are Booming Right Now (The Balance Careers) Job Search Information, Advice & Articles 6 Tips to Prepare for a Successful Video Interview (Purdue University Global) Graduating in the Age of COVID-19 Student Guidebook (The Washington Center) How Will Coronavirus Affect Your Job Search in 2020? (Vault) How to Boost Your Career While You Shelter in Place (Vault) 4 Strategies for Nailing the Video Interview (Vault) Interviewing in the Time of Coronavirus (Vault) How To Job Search During The Coronavirus Pandemic (Glassdoor) Job Searching in a Pandemic (LinkedIn) Job Seeking During an Outbreak (LinkedIn) Is the coronavirus going to disrupt your job search? (LinkedIn) COVID-19 and Your Job: Tips and Actions to Consider (Indeed) How COVID-19 is impacting job seekers and hiring managers (TechRepublic) 6 Tips to Land a Job In A Virtual Work Environment (CareerShift) Coronavirus Is Transforming the Workforce: What You Should Know (The Balance Careers) How the Remote Hiring Process Works (The Balance Careers) Professional Development, Resume Builders & Learning New Skills 5 Big Benefits of Learning New Skills (Vault) 5 Skills That Will Be In Demand in a Post-Pandemic World(Vault) Career Readiness Defined(NACE) Job Interview Questions is a free site used by more than a hundred universities and colleges across the country. Find interview questions specific to the position you are interviewing for based on the skills and qualities needed to do the job. LinkedIn Learning offers a free 30-day trial. Access hundreds of courses and learn new skills that employers look for such as Excel, Programming, Web Development, Graphic Design or even Photography. IBM Design Thinking is offering several free courses that you can take for free. Create your account and complete these courses to earn badges. Coursera streams video lectures from top instructors in subjects like business, computer science, data science, language learning, & more. Codecademy offers 180 hours of free content on topics such as coding, programming, data science and more! edX offers access to 2,000+ free courses from leading institutions such as Harvard and MIT. Learn about business, management, nutrition, chemistry, music and more! Skillshare offers thousands of free classes on topics such as photography, creative writing, web design, UX design, film, and animation. Duolingo is a free app that teaches you a new language – Est-ce que tu parles français? General Tips & Information If you are just starting your job or internship search, or if your previous job or internship has changed, here are some tips to help you interact with recruiters or employer representatives: Reach out to recruiters/hiring managers to check-in but be patient if they don't have an answer yet Prepare in advance to use virtual platforms for interviews or work-related tasks Emphasize your adaptability Have perspective – employers are also adapting to a rapidly changing workplace Consider micro-internship or project opportunities as alternatives if your internship is canceled Login to your Hire Red Raiders account and schedule an appointment online. If you have any questions navigating the site, please call our office at (806) 742-2210. Hours of Operation: Monday - Friday 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. View Map Meet the Staff The University Career Center encourages persons with disabilities to participate in our programs and activities. If you anticipate needing any type of accommodation or have questions about accessibility, please call 806-742-2210 in advance of your participation or visit. Are you starting a full-time job? Have you been accepted into graduate school? Are you still deciding? The University Career Center (UCC) wants to know your post-grad plans! Report your Outcome! Hire Red Raiders Get connected on Hire Red Raiders! Schedule an appointment Register for events and career fairs Search for jobs and internships View our resource library UCC Contact Info Phone: (806) 742-2210 Email: careercenter@ttu.edu Meet the Staff Connect with Us! @TTUCareers Texas Tech University Career Center @TTUCareers Texas Tech University Career Center University Career Center Like University Career Center on FacebookLike University Career Center on Facebook Follow University Career Center on twitterFollow University Career Center on twitter Subscribe to University Career Center on YouTubeSubscribe to University Career Center on YouTube Follow University Career Center on InstagramFollow University Career Center on Instagram Connect with University Career Center on LinkedInConnect with University Career Center on LinkedIn Address Texas Tech University Career Center, Wiggins Complex - Box 45006, Lubbock, Texas 79409 Phone 806.742.2210 Email careercenter@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversitySep 22, 2021 10:15 AM University Career Center Students & Alumni University Career Center Back What We Do What to Expect Design Your Life Develop Your Job Search Skills Search for Jobs Additional Resources University Career Center Back Techsan Connection Network COVID-19 Career Resources TTU Wellbeing | Beyond Okay Employers University Career Center Back Recruiting & Engagement Employer Event Calendar Hire Red Raiders Parker Dewey: Mirco-Internships Employer Brochure Faculty/Staff University Career Center Back Request a Presentation Career Assessments Frequently Asked Questions Families University Career Center Back Career Development Checklist Assessments for Your Student What Can I Do With This Major? Parent & Family Relations Events University Career Center Back All Events Career Fairs Career Development Events Virtual Events Webinars Employer & Graduate School Information Sessions Hire Red Raiders University Career Center Back HRR Homepage Students Employers Alumni Report Your Outcome Meet the Staff Admin Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index