Risk Management - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Risk Management Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Risk Management About Claims Insurance Workers Compensation Contracts Training Contact Us Quick Links: File a Claim MVR Request Waiver or Deviation of Insurance Student Travel Guidelines Golf Cart Driving Safety Guidelines UH Home Risk Management Risk Management Welcome The Risk Management department strives to protect the University of Houston community by reviewing and implementing appropriate risk management and insurance strategies. The department manages the property and liability insurance programs for all campuses in the University of Houston System, and continuously works towards finding new ways to manage the risk exposure. In this section you will find information regarding University purchased insurance, how to file a claim with Risk Management, as well as our policies. Please contact us directly if there are any questions. How can we help? UH Response: COVID-19 The global spread of COVID-19 is being closely monitored by University of Houston. Please review the COVID-19 Information for the UH Community. Prevention is key to mitigating the risk of catching and/or spreading viruses. The CDC has up to date information on the status of this now world-wide virus. Visit their site for more information. Be safe, Coogs! Work Injuries If you suffer an on the job injury, the clock starts ticking. As per the University of Houston's policy, an injured employee has 48 hours to complete the appropriate forms in order to report the incident. This includes injuries sustained while working in another country. Avoid the possibility of having coverage denied for late reporting. Contact your supervisor immediately after an incident. For more information, go to our Workers' Compensation page, or contact us. We are glad to help! Requirement to Drive UH owned/leased vehicles Do you or someone you know do any of the following: 1. Drive a University owned vehicle or golf cart 2. Drive a vehicle leased by the University 3. Rent a vehicle for business purposes on behalf of the University If so, it is the University of Houston's policy that all such drivers, even students or people not employed by the University, must be approved by the Office of Risk Management by way of an MVR check. Just complete the MVR Request form, follow the instructions, and we will take care of the rest! Property Damage - What to do For damage that occurs to University owned property (such as building fires, hail, flooding, etc), Risk Management is here to help the University in facilitating the insurance claim. If you are aware of a major property loss to a building or the UH owned contents of a building (over $25,000 in damages), use this checklist and this workbook to gather the information that is needed. This also includes any loss of research or revenue that the University may face as a result of a covered property loss. The more information we have up front, the less problematic the claim will be in the end! Help us to help the University by using this form and notifying us promptly of a claim (within 2 business days). Contact Us In Person Ezekiel W. Cullen Building Mail Risk Management University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Building 4302 University Drive, Room 10F Houston, TX 77204-2009 Or contact us directly. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies