For the most current information on the status of Libraries operations, services and policies visit UW Libraries Operations Updates. Online resources and support are available 24/7 Skip to primary content Skip to sidebar content University of Washington University Libraries My UW Calendar Maps Directories Toggle navigation Home Start Your Research Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW. E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW. Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information. E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types. Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources. Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes. Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives. Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps. Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. moreon research Use the Libraries Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines. Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them. Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries. Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW. Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns. more on using the Libraries Help & Support FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources. Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses. Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips. Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services. Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources. Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives. Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research. Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students. more help About Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches. News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits. Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments. Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries. Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries. Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries. PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services. Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives. Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Anti-Racism Position statement, goals, working groups, community engagement. more about the Libraries Libraries Art Library Built Environments Library Drama Library Engineering Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library Gallagher Law Library Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers Health Sciences Library Mathematics Research Library Music Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Research Commons Special Collections Suzzallo and Allen Libraries Tateuchi East Asia Library UW Bothell/Cascadia Library UW Tacoma Library Ask Us! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service. Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email. Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian. more ways to contact us About the Libraries / News Events Exhibits Libraries Newsletter News & Announcements Libraries in the News Events & Exhibits Calendar Exhibits Guidelines Social Media Directory Latest from Our Blog UW Libraries’ Negeen Aghassibake selected as 2022 LEADING Fellow May 25, 2022 Preparing for Finals Week: UW Libraries 10 Tips for Success May 24, 2022 Inside and Out: Working with Vendors to Improve Accessibility May 19, 2022 No Easy Answers: Big Data Vendors, Information Access and Libraries May 05, 2022 May Update Apr 29, 2022 Latest from Our Blog - More… Stay Connected Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Home / About the Libraries / News Events Exhibits / News & Announcements / Libraries Closed June 13th for Software Update Info Libraries Closed June 13th for Software Update The software vendor for UW Libraries Search has scheduled an upgrade to the catalog on Monday, June 13th, 2022. The catalog will be offline the entire day, and all UW Libraries on all campuses with the exception of the Health Sciences Library, will be closed to implement the upgrade. Some changes will launch with the initial upgrade and others will come slowly over the next year. The upgrade will include several new and improved features; however, individual saved searches and permalinks within the catalog will be impacted. To mitigate the loss of saved content within the catalog, please see “Impacts to your saved data” below and refer to the 2022 Search System Upgrade Guide. New features available upon June upgrade: New records will populate into the catalog much more quickly Item availability windows will load faster The Search-Inside feature will allow users to search for articles within journal titles The Journals Browse feature will incorporate both print and electronic materials Impacts to your saved data in UW Libraries Search [More information in the 2022 Search System Upgrade Guide. ] If you are using Permalinks for items in the catalog (i.e. in Canvas or other course materials), these links will not redirect you to the upgraded system. You will need to save individual items to the My Favorites menu for easy access post-upgrade. Items in My Favorites > Saved Records will be migrated automatically for each patron Items in My Favorites > Saved Searches will not be migrated. This includes Search Alerts as well. Search alerts will need to be turned off prior to the upgrade. If you wish to keep your saved searches, please copy them outside of the catalog before Jun 12, 2022 so that you can re-enter them after the upgrade. If you don’t wish to preserve your saved queries, no action is necessary. Ensure bookmarks to UW Libraries Search use this URL: https://search.lib.uw.edu/ For questions and support during this process, contact your subject librarian or the Libraries Ask Us service. Thank you for your patience as we make this important transition to improve UW Libraries user experience. UW Libraries Information Technology Services and Digital Strategies ### University of Washington Libraries Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA phone: 206-543-0242 - Contact Us UW Home / Privacy / Terms Text on this page created by UW Libraries is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. Images and video are not included. See details.