Hispanic Studies - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Hispanic Studies About The Program Directors and Advisors Fellowships Faculty and Staff Criteria and Guidelines for Promotion and Tenure Departamental Bylaws Graduate Ph.D. in Spanish with a Concentration in Linguistics or Literature Ph.D. in Spanish with a Concentration in Creative Writing Ph.D. in Spanish with a Concentration in US Latino Literature, Language and Culture M.A. in Spanish Linguistics and/or Literature M.A.-Ph.D. in Spanish Linguistics and/or Literature M.A.-Ph.D. in Spanish with a Concentration in Creative Writing Online Graduate Certificate Undergraduate Spanish Language Programs Heritage Track Second Language Track News & Events Photo Gallery Giving Fellowships Hispanic Studies CLASS Statement on Social and Racial Injustice The College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences and The Department of Hispanic Studies stand with the African American community and all other oppressed communities against systemic, social and racial oppression. We assert that racism, discrimination, classism, xenophobia, sexism, homophobia, transphobia and other weapons of divisive hate have no place on college campuses or in civil society, domestic or abroad. We, collectively, are deeply saddened by the violent, untimely and senseless murders of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, George Floyd and countless other Black people in the United States. Our hearts are heavy, our heads are bowed, and our knees are bent in solidarity with their families and others that have experienced systematic oppression since the founding of our nation. As producers and disseminators of knowledge, we embrace the obligation to prepare our students for the richly diverse world that they will inherit as critical-thinking members of society. Further, our obligation is to prepare them to interact with people from diverse backgrounds and to challenge epistemologies, policies and dogma that promote vitriolic attacks on difference. We are committed and urge all of you to be active in the struggle to eradicate injustice everywhere in order to foster a world that is more loving, peaceful, kind, compassionate and just. News and Events Gabriela Baeza Ventura Elected to MLA’s Digital Humanities Forum Gabriela Baeza Ventura was elected to serve on the Modern Language Association (MLA) Transdisciplinary Connections Digital Humanities Forum Executive Committee for 2022-2027. As part of this forum, Baeza Ventura will help to represent areas of scholarly and professional interests for MLA members. Learn more. New Book by UH Professors Manuel J Gutiérrez and Pedro Gutiérrez Revuelta, La palabra de Pablo Neruda (1960-1973): Acción y poesía junto al pueblo (Ediciones Universidad de Salamanca 2020) Doctoral Student Receives Grant for Interdisciplinary Artistic Pursuits Our own Cristina Rivera-Garza has been awarded a MacArthur Fellowship The New York Times Features Celebrated UH Professor Learning Abroad in Cadiz, Spain New book from Almenara Press co-edited by Professor Mabel Cuesta Doctoral Student Raquel Abend's New Poetry Book About Hispanic Studies The Department of Hispanic Studies seeks: To foster understanding and communication through the study of Spanish languages, literatures, linguistics and cultures in the age of globalization. To provide education and training for students seeking careers drawing on or enhanced by such study. To develop established and new programs contributing to local, regional, national and international knowledge. The Department of Hispanic Studies offers programs for Spanish Language Requirement, Undergraduate, and Graduate Studies. Department Programs Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Spanish Language Programs Learning Abroad Department Highlights Online M.A. in U.S. Hispanic Studies Admissions are open now! Priority Deadline Application May 15th, 2021. Literary Award Escritura Revuelta Deadline: September 11, 2021 Arte Publico Press Recovering the US Hispanic Literary Heritage Project Related Links Language Commons University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies