Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Graduate Student Life Menu Main Nav Graduate Student Life Contact Back Back Close About Overview Murray House Meet Our Staff Programs and Services Overview Doctoral Writing Group Graduate Leadership Program Grads Give Back GPS Grad Student Retreat New Graduate and Professional Student Orientation Grad Student Association Overview Senate and Student Organizations Campus Life Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close New Graduate and Professional Student Orientation Home Programs and Services New Graduate and Professional Student Orientation New Graduate and Professional Student Orientation Welcome to Boston College, graduate and professional students! The Virtual New Graduate and Professional Student Orientation program includes three parts. We encourage all incoming grad students to participate in each: New Graduate and Professional Student Orientation Learning Outcomes: Students who attend Orientation will be able to: Identify at least two academic or administrative buildings on campus Locate one of the campus libraries Identify at least two opportunities for involvement as a graduate student Anticipate one potential challenge they may face as a graduate student and identify a resource they would utilize for support in navigating that challenge Orientation Virtual Drop In Hours Meet current graduate students and learn about what it is like to be a grad student at BC! Orientation Guides will be hosting Virtual Drop-In Hours via Zoom throughout the summer to answer your questions about navigating graduate student life. The sessions are informal, and you can join a session at any time. Contact gsc@bc.edu with questions. Drop-In Hours Schedule Wednesday, July 28 12:00-12:30 p.m. EST Saturday, July 31 5:00-5:30 p.m. EST Tuesday, August 3 7:00-7:30 p.m. EST Sunday, August 8 3:00-3:30 p.m. EST Friday, August 13 4:00-4:30 p.m. EST Saturday, August 14 8:00-8:30 a.m. EST Virtual Orientation Modules Prior to the start of classes, all incoming graduate students will receive access to a series of online orientation modules. Complete all modules and the survey on-time and you will be entered into a raffle to win exciting prizes. University Grad Student Welcome Begin the academic year and your BC journey with fellow incoming graduate students, as well as faculty and staff, at the official University Graduate Student Welcome. The Office of Graduate Student Life, Office of the Provost, and Graduate Student Association will host an official welcome via Zoom. MEET THE ORIENTATION GUIDES Ally Yarri School: Lynch School of Education and Human Development Program: Higher Education Administration/Student Affairs Where you call home: Williston Park, NY Favorite on-campus study spot: The Murray House Where to eat near campus: El Pelon Taqueria Advice to incoming grad students: Establish a consistent routine as early as you can! Amelia Foubert School: Woods College of Advancing Studies Program: M.S. Leadership & Administration Where you call home: Hometown is Omaha/NE/USA. I currently live in Brighton MA Favorite on-campus study spot: O'Neill Library Advice to incoming grad students: Don't forget to use the online library resources to get articles for any papers you need to write! Colleen Scanlon School: School of Social Work Program: Clinical Social Work Where you call home: Rockland, Massachusetts Favorite on-campus study spot: If a Social Work Graduate student, I highly recommend taking advantage of the library. Honestly any of the libraries on campus are wonderful. Advice to incoming grad students: Make the best of it. Explore the campus. Meet new people from different graduate programs. Ejuma Adoga School: Lynch School of Education and Human Development Program: Mental Health Counseling Where you call home: Maryland Favorite on-campus study spot: Gasson Common Room Where to eat near campus: El Pelon Taqueria Advice to incoming grad students: Don’t get too caught up in all of your work—it’s okay to relax and actually enjoy being at BC! Ellen Tracy School: Connell School of Nursing Program: Family Nurse Practitioner Where you call home: Springfield, IL Favorite on-campus study spot: Either in Maloney study lounge or 4th floor graduate study room in the main library! Where to eat near campus: My favorite place to eat when I am on campus is El Pelon! It’s super good and good priced! A lot amazing places to unwind near campus is in Washington square which has a variety of amazing places to pick from for food, drinks and groceries! Advice to incoming grad students: Check out the BC shuttle app! It’s called rider, it is extremely reliable and tells you exactly when the BC shuttle will be at each stop. Emily Kurtz School: School of Social Work Program: Masters of Social Work Where you call home: Boston, MA Research Interest: Psychology Favorite on-campus study spot: Bapst Library, Stokes Hall Where to eat on and near campus: The Chocolate Bar in Stokes Hall, Playa Bowls near BC, Trader Joe's in Coolidge Corner for grocery shopping Advice to incoming grad students: Spend as much time on campus as possible! This is how you really meet people and make those connections! Jennifer Timms School: School of Social Work Program: Clinical Social Work Where you call home: My home is Boston now, but my hometown is Milledgeville, Georgia Favorite on-campus study spot: Social work library Where to eat near campus: El Pelon Taqueria across the street from campus is great. Fuel America is a great coffee shop near campus on Chestnut Hill Avenue. There’s a large Star Market (grocery store) a few stops up Commonwealth Ave. at Babcock street off the Green line (B Train) up by Boston University. Advice to incoming grad students: Ditch the car unless you absolutely need it here and take the T instead. Jessica Morris School: Lynch School of Education and Human Development Program: Higher Education Where you call home: Boston, MA Research Interest: Greek Life Favorite on-campus study spot: Lobby of Campion! Where to grocery shop: I recommend the Trader Joe’s in Brookline! Advice to incoming grad students: Go out of your way to make connections with your classmates off the bat! It might feel awkward at first, but having good friends in class with you makes your grad school experience that much more fulfilling. Plus, you’ll make connections in your field that you will have for life! Mahsa Kashani School: Boston College Law School Program: J.D. Where you call home: Oakland, California Favority on-campus study spot: Law library Where to eat near campus: Newton Center has a cute array of coffee shops and restaurants within walking distance of the law school. I would highly recommend Blackbird Doughnuts for a sweet bite! Advice to incoming grad students: The law school is far away from the rest of the BC main campus, but that shouldn't stop you from trying to participate in all that BC has to offer! Maria Pestana School: School of Social Work Program: Social Work Where you call home: Bay Area, CA Favorite on-campus study spot: For my Social Work fam, the Social Work Library is awesome Where to eat near campus: Playa Bowls has delicious Acai bowls. You won't see a lot of that on the East Coast, so take advantage! It's right at the B line stop. Advice to incoming grad students: Reaching out to classmates and connecting with them outside of the classroom. I wish I had done more of that sooner! Michael O'Connell School: School of Social Work Program: Masters in Social Work Where you call home: Brighton/Boston/Massachusetts/USA Favorite on-campus study spot: O'Neill Library Where to eat near campus: El Pelon Taqueria Advice to incoming graduate students: Grad school can be stressful and feel like a questionable decision at times. Be easy and gentle with yourself. Sarah Ghods Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Program: MA in English with a Certificate in Women's and Gender Studies Where you call home: Southern California Research interest: My research is focused on intersectional feminism and I examine representations of women in literature and pop culture. Favorite on-campus study spot: Gargan Hall in Bapst Library! Where to eat and shop near campus: The Shops at Chestnut Hill / the Streets at Chestnut Hill have nice dining and shopping options and offer a range of casual and fancy choices. There's a super nice Wegman's in The Shops, but it's a little pricier than the Trader Joe's in Coolidge Corner. Those are the two places where I normally grocery shop. TJ's is easier to get to if you're relying on public transit! Shubhalaxmi Taywade School: Carroll School of Management Program: MBA Where you call home: Seattle, WA Research interest: Human Capital Strategy Favorite on-campus study spot: O'Neill Library, Fulton Where to eat on and near campus: Eat/ Drink- Hillsides Café (on-campus), Grocery Shopping - I take the BC shuttle every Sunday to visit the nearby mall. Advice to incoming grad students: Get involved with the larger BC community as much as possible. Steph Carroll School: Lynch School of Education and Human Development Program: Higher Education Where you call home: Medway, MA Research interest: College access and success Favorite on-campus study spot: The ERC in Campion Where to eat near campus: Playa Bowls on Commonwealth for Smoothies Advice to incoming grad students: Get your HR paperwork in order as soon as you arrive if you have an on-campus job. Back To Top Back To Top Graduate Student Life The John Courtney Murray, S.J. House 292 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-1855 gsc@bc.edu About Programs Grad Student Association Campus Life Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College