Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information You are here Home > About Us > Our Culture > Diversity and Cultural Affairs Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Community Initiatives Lenape Land Acknowledgment Events Contact Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Diversity and Cultural Affairs Columbia University School of Nursing is committed to social justice and health equity, promoting an anti-racism environment, and fostering a culture of inclusion. Diversity in our education, research, practice, and our programming within and outside our community leads to transformation, innovation, and leadership in nursing. Our culture of inclusion aims to: Promote a work environment of mutual respect and collaboration for all members of the Columbia Nursing community. Uphold the honor and dignity of each student, faculty, staff, patient, client, and visitor in all our interactions. Promote an environment of inclusiveness where diversity is embraced and celebrated in a climate of tolerance, transparency, accountability, and fair and honest communication. Engender a community in which all persons can work and learn together to promote the highest level of intra-personal reflection about self in an effort to mitigate implicit biases and to engage in inter-professional collaborations. The Office of Diversity and Cultural Affairs (ODCA) serves as an internal support system to help advance our social justice and health equity mission and foster a culture of inclusion. Goals include increasing diversity in the recruitment, retention, and mentoring of students, faculty, and staff; providing a platform for open discussion of critical issues; and advancing community connections. Educational forums aim to inform, engage, and develop a deeper understanding of the social/structural/economic/political determinants of health, as well as personal growth challenges that impact one’s ability to see others through a human, social justice lens. Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Columbia Nursing is committed to social justice and health equity and anti-racism. Learn more about the actions we have taken towards these commitments. Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Community Initiatives Columbia Nursing’s commitment to supporting our community is an essential element in our efforts to promote social justice and health equity. Community Initiatives Lenape Land Acknowledgment Columbia Nursing acknowledges the the traditional, ancestral, unceded territory of the Lenape People on which we learn, work, and gather today. Lenape Land Acknowledgment Diversity and Cultural Affairs News A Shot in the Arm November 15, 2021 Columbia Nursing faculty, students, and alumni work to vaccinate the masses, address fears, and more. Topic Columbia Nursing Magazine Research Roundup November 15, 2021 New research by Columbia Nursing faculty address COVID-19 death rates among minority individuals in nursing homes, mental health care, and asthma treatment. Topic Columbia Nursing Magazine Building a Bridge to Work October 11, 2021 John Robinson, CEO of Our Ability, discussed how the pandemic and the social justice movement have shifted the job market in favor of people with disabilities. Topic Diversity and Cultural Affairs Diversity and Cultural Affairs Events There are currently no upcoming events. View All Events Contact Us Contact the Office of Diversity and Cultural Affairs Contact the Office of Diversity and Cultural Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Learn About Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Learn About Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top