Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Alumni Recruiters Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Carroll School? Diversity & Inclusion Diversity News Accreditation Board of Advisors Faculty Openings Visit Contact Related Links About Boston College Maps & Directions BC News Undergraduate Overview Academics Advising Peer Advisors Staff Advisors Concentrations Minors The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship Career Accelerator Summer Management Catalyst Program Portico Careers Social Media CSOM Undergraduate Career Resources Placement Data Career Accelerator Study Abroad Community & Student Life FAQ CSOM Undergrad FAQs: COVID-19 Mar 13: Letter From Undergraduate Dean's Office Mar 20: Registration and Advising Updates Contact Graduate Overview Admission Visits and Events Tuition and Aid O’Brien Fellowship Graduate Admission FAQ International Applicants Information for U.S. Military MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Part-Time MBA Data Analytics Sequence Electives Applied Learning BC MBA Ambassadors M.S. Programs M.S. in Finance M.S. in Accounting Ph.D. Programs Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. in Finance Ph.D. in Organization Studies Community & Student Life Living in Boston Career Development Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Part-Time Faculty Faculty Expertise Departments Overview Concentrations Academics Accounting Undergraduate Concentrations Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Business Analytics Concentration & Academics Careers Seminar Series Message From the Chairperson Business Law & Society Finance Academics and Study Abroad F22 Registration Info Faculty Ph.D. Program Seminar Series Job Market Candidates Message From the Chairperson Information Systems Concentration & Academics Message From the Chairperson Seminar Series Management & Organization Concentration & Academics Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Marketing Concentration & Academics Careers Awards and Appointments Faculty Message From the Chairperson Fall 2022 Registration Centers Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Carroll School Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Alumni Recruiters BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Carroll School News 2022 In Good Company Carroll School News Global Ranking Keeps Carroll School in Good Company by William Bole The school is 26th in the world for faculty research, according to the Financial Times - Published on February 24, 2022 Each year, the Financial Times conducts the most authoritative survey of scholarly research at business schools—assessing the productivity and prominence of research carried out at schools worldwide. This year, once again, the Boston College Carroll School of Management has landed among the world’s top schools in that survey. In the latest tabulations, FT has pegged the Carroll School at no. 26 globally for research—the same as last year’s lofty ranking for the school. The publication announced its findings this month, based on a survey of 100 leading business schools internationally. As in past years, the Carroll School finds itself in good company on this score. RELATED Strong Results for Carroll School in Latest U.S. News Rankings The research ranking puts the Carroll School just behind highly regarded schools of management at Duke (23rd), University of Michigan (24th), and University of North Carolina (25th). At no. 26, the Carroll School also takes its place ahead of business schools at such institutions as the University of Southern California (27th), Dartmouth (37th), Notre Dame (49th), and Georgetown (60th). Closely watched, the FT survey is an empirically based assessment of research by business-school faculties, measuring how much they publish in the world’s leading academic journals of management studies. Specifically, the ranking centers on the frequency of articles published in the so-called “FT 50,” the top journals used by FT in compiling its annual research survey. Just in recent months, Carroll School faculty members have published articles in such FT 50 publications as Management Science, Academy of Management Journal, Administrative Science Quarterly, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Journal of Marketing, Journal of Marketing Research, Marketing Science, Journal of Applied Psychology, Journal of Business Ethics, and the MIT Sloan Management Review. The Financial Times began ranking business schools for research in 1999, with the Carroll School making its first appearance in these compilations seven years later, premiering at No. 52. The school’s average ranking over the past five years is 31 notches above that initial position. (The rankings fluctuate from year to year, owing to an array of factors, including exactly when the research papers are published.) FT conducts the survey together with its Global MBA rankings, although the findings apply to the entire Carroll School (which has the same faculty for both undergraduate and graduate programs). The research rankings can be viewed by selecting the "FT research rank" checkbox from the additional columns provided on the full table of FT’s survey data, and then sorting by that column. William Bole is Director of Content Development at the Carroll School of Management. Back To Top Back To Top Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Apply Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College