Skip to main content The Magazine of the University of Central Florida | Archives In This Issue Spring 2022 Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. Pegasus The Magazine of the University of Central Florida In This Issue Archives Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. I was inspired to become a physician while growing up in Albania, where I witnessed how a lack of resources and medical care can impact people’s lives. In 1999, when Kosovo refugees were forced to leave their homes and immigrate to Albania, medical workers and physicians were integral to helping provide care for those in need. I saw the difference healthcare providers can make in a community — and so began my dream to pursue medical training in the United States. It might’ve been luck, destiny — or both — but my family won the green card lottery, enabling me to move to the United States as a permanent resident right after finishing high school. As the airplane flew farther from Albania until the land completely disappeared, I looked into the sky not knowing what was ahead of me. But I believed in my potential to make a difference where I was headed. Soon after I graduated with a bachelor’s degree in microbiology from the University of South Florida, I was faced with the unknown again. When I was applying to medical schools, I heard about the UCF College of Medicine (COM) enrolling its first class in 2009 — with a full-ride scholarship for each student. When I arrived at COM for my interview, I met motivated faculty who had confidence and fire within them to build the best medical school in the country. As I heard Dean Deborah German describe her vision for UCF’s medical school and the Medical City in Lake Nona, I envisioned my future: graduating with the best medical training and working in Medical City. Although there was no medical school building yet, I was excited for the opportunity to be part of the founding class. There were no established or traditional ways. As students, we had great mentorship from the faculty while providing our own feedback on the college to help shape its foundation. Once the medical school building was completed in Summer 2010, it was a state-of-the-art facility that provided us the resources needed to succeed. My time at COM was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to pursue the medical education that I had dreamed of while contributing to the future of a burgeoning healthcare community. That education led me to complete my internal medicine residency at Tufts Medical Center in Boston and then a cardiology fellowship and an advanced cardiovascular imaging fellowship at the University of Virginia Medical Center. After completing my medical training, I returned to Medical City. The growth I saw realized what Dean German envisioned when I started medical school, and I was shocked at how fast it had happened. In just about 12 years, UCF COM went from having no building to having its own Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences, an internal medicine residency program, the Lake Nona Medical Center — UCF’s teaching hospital, which opened a year ago — and the UCF Lake Nona Cancer Center, which was completed at the end of 2021. Last year, I realized my vision to work in Medical City when I was hired to build the advanced cardiac imaging program at the Orlando VA Medical Center (OVAMC). One person dies every 36 seconds from cardiovascular disease in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and heart disease is the leading cause of death in the nation. Advanced cardiac imaging plays an essential role in appropriately diagnosing various heart diseases, which means my position at Medical City allows me to fulfill an integral role for my community — just like the medical workers I saw in Albania. Since my return to Lake Nona, I’ve also had an incredible opportunity to work with UCF med students and residents during their cardiology rotations. It is heartwarming to continue to hear great news about COM and its successful match of internal medicine residents to cardiology, and other, fellowships. My hope is to be a great mentor to these future healthcare professionals, similar to the great mentors I had when I was a COM student. Now as a practitioner in Medical City, I envision COM to one day offer fellowships and expanded residency programs to grow its ability to train exceptional physicians that will continue to provide the best medical care for our community. I believed in Medical City when it was only a vision, and I continue to believe it will become one of the best destinations and referral medical centers in the world to receive care. Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD is a cardiologist and cardiac imaging specialist at the Orlando VA Medical Center and a graduate from UCF’s College of Medicine charter class. By Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD Illustration by Valerie Chiang Spring 2022 Share this content on Facebook Tweet this content Related Stories Introducing the UCF Lake Nona Medical Center College of Medicine Top Ranked Nationally for Dermatology Matches Knights Do That Podcast: Expertise from a Breast Cancer Researcher More from the Spring 2022 Issue Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube Pegasus Magazine Suggest a Story Tell Us What You Think Update Your Address © University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816