Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator California Emergency Grant Grant Information The California Emergency Grant is a one-time state grant for the 2021-2022 academic year available to low-income students. Emergency grant funding is designed to provide aid to currently enrolled students who are struggling with a personal crisis or an emergency situation. Students who are able to demonstrate an emergency financial need, including loss of income, can submit an electronic application to the Office of Financial Aid for consideration of this grant. Award amount Funds are limited and will be distributed in an equitable manner depending on financial need and the total amount of applicants. Eligibility Requirements Student must be enrolled in Fall 2021with at least 6 units; and Student must meet requirements for the Federal Pell Grant or if student is a Dream Act applicant, must have an exemption from paying nonresident tuition (also known as AB 540 affidavit); and Student must have a 2.0 grade point average in ONE term of the previous three semester terms – at CSUF or student’s prior college; or student is disabled and receiving additional support or services through Disability Support Services Current CSUF students enrolled in Fall 2021 with a valid 2021-22 FAFSA or Dream Act application on file and have been preliminarily identified as meeting all eligibility requirements above will receive an email notification from the Office of Financial Aid. Electronic application California Emergency Grant Application deadline has passed. Application Deadline December 31, 2021 Awarding timeline February 1-28, 2022 Direct deposit Enroll in Direct Deposit Important The Office of Financial Aid anticipates a high volume of applications and may take approximately 4-6 weeks for review after the application submission deadline. Award eligibility is determined based on financial need and must be coordinated with student financial aid packages. Students will be notified of award eligibility via CSUF student email account. If eligible, direct deposit provides the quickest delivery of funds. This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.