Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift President Presidential Speaking/Attending Event Request Please respond to the basic questions below regarding your request for President Clements to speak to and/or attend your event. Event Information Event Name/Title Event Date Event Location (full address and zip code if off campus): Event Start Time Event End Time Time you would like the president to arrive Main Contact Main Contact Name Main Contact Work Phone Main Contact Cell Phone Main Contact Email Event Details What is the overall purpose of the event/meeting? How many people do you expect in attendance (approx.)? Please describe the audience Is the president expected to speak? If so, what topics will be of interest to the attendees? How much time is allotted for him to speak? Is there anything specific you would like for the president to make sure he includes in his remarks? What is the dress code for this event? Where should the president park for this event? (if applicable) Is there a reserved space? Where? Who will meet/greet the president upon arrival? Is there anything the president needs to know/should know prior to this event (VIP’s, elected officials in attendance, or any other background info, etc.) Home Biography Meet the First Lady President's Advisory Board President’s Forum for Inclusive Excellence President’s Leadership Institute Presidential Speaking Request Contacts Follow @ClemsonPrez President's News & Announcements Related Links About Academics Athletics ClemsonForward Clemson Forever Outreach Research University Org Chart Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram