Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > January 27, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff January 27, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution Dear Colleagues, Vaccinations are continuing today, January 27. Please remember to continue to wear face coverings (preferably surgical masks or other two-ply face coverings), practice physical distancing, and wash hands frequently, even after you have been vaccinated. These measures, in addition to vaccinations, minimize the opportunity for the virus and the disease to spread. And even after you have received both doses of the vaccine, you must still follow the COVID-19 gateway testing requirements as well as get tested if you are selected for random testing. We continue to vaccinate individuals in Groups 1A and 1B. Please refer to the website below for hours of vaccination and please note new instructions for second doses for phase 1A individuals (see below). The website will be updated as changes occur. Effective tomorrow, only NYC residents will be able to receive a vaccine at vaccination centers in NYC, including The Armory. NYP and Columbia employees in group 1A (staff working in patient care settings) will continue to be vaccinated at CUIMC regardless of where they live. https://www.cuimc.columbia.edu/covid-19-resources-cuimc/covid-19-vaccine-information-cuimc-employees-and-students As of today, over 40,000 faculty, staff, and students at NewYork-Presbyterian, Weill Cornell, and Columbia have received their first dose of the vaccine. There have also been over 26,000 second doses administered. This includes over 23,000 first and second doses administered on the CUIMC campus alone. Second Dose Vaccinations (Individuals in Phase 1a) Since the employee and staff vaccinations have been so successful, the numbers requiring second dose vaccinations are diminished, and so effective today, Wednesday January 27, and through Friday January 29: For second dose Pfizer vaccinations: Go to Myrna Daniels auditorium vaccination site. We will be closed for the weekend and resume again Monday February 1 – Friday February 5for employee/staff second dose Pfizer vaccinations. No appointment time is necessary for these second doses (even though Epic functionality assigns a time along with the day). Please view the website for hours. For second dose of Moderna: Go to Workforce Health and Safety, Monday through Friday during the hours of 7:30 am – 3:30 pm. Workforce Health and Safety is located at Harkness Pavilion, 180 Fort Washington Avenue, First floor, room 112 (WHS is located directly across from the elevators.) Patient and Community Vaccinations at the Armory At this time, per NYS we are vaccinating people age 65 and over who live in New York City. For those who meet these eligibility criteria, appointments can be made through Connect and appointment availability can be checked on the VaccineTogetherNY.org site. Information is also available at 646.697.VACC. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) The FAQ documents on the CUIMC COVID Vaccine Information page continue to be updated, so please check the site for the latest versions. Below is the Question of the Day: I live in NJ but I work at NYP. Since vaccines are not as readily available in New Jersey, would NYP provide vaccines to the older first degree family members of its employees? Unfortunately, based on new guidance, COVID-19 vaccines for individuals 65 years of age and older are only available for New York City residents. Thank you and stay safe! Magda Sobieszczyk MD, MPH Chief of Infectious Diseases and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Melissa Stockwell MD, MPH Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top