Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Accessing Care Worried about a Friend If you are concerned that a friend’s eating or exercise habits have become problematic, you are not alone. Disordered eating behaviors such as chronic dieting or food restriction, self-induced vomiting, bingeing, and overexercise are very common on college campuses. A person might be in recovery from an eating disorder and behaviors have resurfaced due to the transition to college or other life stressors. Someone else might have always had a healthy relationship with food but suddenly develops harmful behaviors as a way to cope with stress or anxiety. Chances are that within your dorm, your classes, your circle of friends, you know at least one person who’s struggling with their relationship with food. And you can help. You might be the one person who cares enough to start the conversation, and open the door to resources so your friend can seek help. Some things you might have noticed: Food restriction, elimination (such as sugar, carbs, fats), or experimenting with fad diets (such as Paleo, keto, low carb, Whole 30, “clean eating”) Disappearing soon after a meal, often to the bathroom Sudden avoidance of situations where there is likely to be food present Excessive time spent at the gym or working out, often in place of usual social activities Social isolation- lack of interest in activities once enjoyed Increased irritability, moodiness Notable change in weight, up or down (Note: not everyone with an eating concern experiences a change in weight). You may notice one or a few of these symptoms, or perhaps something that is not listed here, but still just doesn’t seem right to you. It’s worth starting the conversation with your friend. Very often, people suffer in silence out of embarrassment or denial. Knowing that you care may help your friend take the first step towards healing. What should I say? Pick a time to talk when it’s quiet and there aren’t too many distractions around. Use “I” statements when discussing your concerns or observations. Instead of commenting directly on your friend’s physical change in appearance or eating behaviors, focus your observations on their overall health, mood, and wellbeing. “We always used to have lunch together. I feel like I haven’t seen you recently”. “I’ve noticed you seem more tired and stressed out than usual”. “I was bummed you missed my birthday gathering. It’s not like you to miss those things- you seem really distracted lately”. If you feel it’s better to be more direct: “I noticed you’ve stopped going to the Ratty with us and you only eat food you’ve prepared yourself. I’m worried about you”. What should I expect? It would be pretty common for your friend to minimize or downplay your concerns, or brush them off entirely. In this case, you may have to be satisfied to have expressed your concerns directly, and let it be for now. Let them know you’re always available to talk, and that you care about them. It’s also possible that your friend will be incredibly relieved and grateful that someone has recognized their distress and is offering support. If they’re willing to talk about it, just listen with empathy, validating your friend’s struggle. If they make self-deprecating comments such as “I’m fat” or “I need to work out more”, realize that you cannot rationalize with your friend right now. One of the hallmarks of an eating disorder is body image distortion- what your friend sees in the mirror is very different from what you see, and you won’t be able to convince them otherwise. Instead, empathize and offer help. “This must be so hard for you. I know these issues are pretty common in college. Do you think you could talk to a professional about it? I can help you, or even go with you if you’d like”. What if there are medical concerns? If you are concerned that your friend may be in some medical jeopardy and feel you must do more than just express your concerns to them, you may need to ask for additional help -- from family, a medical provider, or other professionals. You can also talk to an RPL, an athletic trainer, a Dean of Student Life, Counseling and Psychological Services, or the registered dietitian or a medical provider in Health Services for more advice. Where to go for help One of the most helpful things you can do is facilitate the person's accessing professional help. For Brown students, this is where Health Services, and Counseling and Psychological Services come in. At Health Services, a registered dietitian nutritionist is available to see students individually to help evaluate their nutritional status and eating patterns. Medical providers can perform physical exams and a medical evaluation. Counseling & Psychological Services evaluates the overall eating disorder in the context of the person's current and past life, providing treatment recommendations. On-Campus Resources Health Services Dietitian 401-863-3558 Confidential information or care is available through individual appointments with a Registered Dietitian. Students can discuss personal eating concerns, as well as any concerns they may have regarding a friend, a roommate, or a teammate. There are no fees for these services. University Health Services 401.863-3953 Confidential information and care is available on a walk-in, or by scheduled appointment basis. Care is available for initial, current or past disordered eating patients. There are no fees for medical care at Health Services. However, there may be fees incurred if laboratory tests, medications, specialist or emergency hospital care is needed. Counseling and Psychological Services 401.863-3476 Confidential appointments are available at Counseling and Psychological Services for students concerned about their eating issues. Guidance is also available for those who are concerned about a friend, roommate, or teammates' eating. Services include crisis intervention, short-term psychotherapy and referrals. There are no fees for appointments at Counseling and Psychological Services. Student Support Services 401.863-3145 Student Support Services can assist with academic accommodations when required for treatment and recovery. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-3558 Nutrition Appointment Line 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Intuitive Eating? Intuitive Eating is an evidence-based, mind-body health approach, comprised of 10 Principles and created by two dietitians, Evelyn Tribole and Elyse Resch in 1995. It is a weight-neutral model with a validated assessment scale and over 90 studies to date (Tribole 2017). It’s thrilling to see all the research and gives me great hope. Intuitive Eating is a dynamic integration between mind and body. The principles work by either cultivating or removing obstacles to body awareness, a process known as interoceptive awareness. Essentially, Intuitive Eating is a personal process of honoring health by listening and responding to the direct messages of the body in order to meet your physical and psychological needs. by Evelyn Tribole, MS, RDN, CEDRD-S Read more about intuitive eating What is The Health at Every SizeⓇ Approach? The framing for a Health At Every Size (HAES®) approach comes out of discussions among healthcare workers, consumers, and activists who reject both the use of weight, size, or BMI as proxies for health, and the myth that weight is a choice. The HAES model is an approach to both policy and individual decision-making. It addresses broad forces that support health, such as safe and affordable access. It also helps people find sustainable practices that support individual and community well-being. The HAES approach honors the healing power of social connections, evolves in response to the experiences and needs of a diverse community, and grounds itself in a social justice framework. by the Association for Size Diversity and Health (ASDAH) Read about the HAESⓇ Principles Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook