Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Engineering & Computer Science Main Navigation Departments Centers Current Students Future Students Services & Resources Employment News & Events Giving Contact Us Our Mission Dean's Office ECS Strategic Plan Enrollment & Degrees Awarded Student Sucess Center (SSC) Women in Computer Science and Engineering (WiCSE) Innovation and Entrepreneurship Initiative (EIR) Engineering Ambassadors Network (EAN) Summer Program for High School Students Newsletter Alumni Give Back ECS Catalog Description Giving Back Your Support Can Make A Difference Albert Einstein once said, “It is every man's obligation to put back into the world at least the equivalent of what he takes out of it.” We’d like to think that our alumni feel the same way. There are more than 7,000 alumni of the College of Engineering and Computer Science who are making a difference in the world today thanks to the training, support, and encouragement they received here. Students for whom a first rate education might otherwise have been out of reach, have used the College as a springboard to launch successful careers; found new companies; and develop new technologies, solutions, and systems for industry. Every year a new and growing crop of talented students enter the College seeking access to high-caliber faculty, opportunities to participate in state-of-the-art research/ projects, practical experience through internships, and up-to-date knowledge that will allow them to immediately embark upon careers in industry. Alumni support helps ensure that these students find what they seek. Private support, alumni support, is more important than ever in helping the College achieve engineering and computer science excellence. As tuition rises and State support declines, alumni support makes the difference between first-rate rather than just adequate programs access to a university education for bright but financially needy students rather than just a few community college courses “We make a living by what we get, we make a life by what we give.” --Sir Winston Churchill This site is maintained by Engineering & Computer Science. Last Published 4/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ecswebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.