Skip to Main Content Search Workday@Penn Search About Team Your Workday Faculty Postdocs Graduate Students Student Workers Student Recruitment and Hiring Managers Staff Business Partners Toolbox Mobile App Penn Community Penn Employee Solution Center Work Location Workday Policies Training News System Status Webinar Wednesdays Learning and Talent Workday@Penn Login About Your Workday Toolbox Training News Learning and Talent Home Your Workday Your Workday Discover how Workday@Penn affects you by accessing these frequently asked questions. Page Contents Benefits - Health Care Pay, Payroll Tax, and Compensation Personal Information Time Off and Leave of Absence Time Tracking Training Workday Security Use your PennKey here to access website resources Contact Us Penn Employee Solution Center solutioncenter@upenn.edu or (215) 898-7372 Quick Links What is Workday? For Faculty For Postdocs For Graduate Students For Student Workers (Non-Exempt Weekly Paid) For Managers For Staff For Our Business Partners in Schools, Centers, and Administrative Centers Benefits - Health Care Expand all Collapse all Your Workday: Benefits Health Care, Life and FSA What benefit-related actions can you perform in Workday? In Workday, you can enroll in benefits, declare a benefit event type, view and change beneficiaries, and view current benefit elections and associated costs. See the Self Service-Manage, View, and Change Your Benefits (pdf) tip sheet to find out how. When can new workers elect benefits in Workday? A new benefits-eligible worker can make self-service benefits elections 30 days before their start date if onboarding is completed. See the complete set of tip sheets for new hires on this Workday@Penn webpage. When will current workers be able to view or change benefits in Workday? Open enrollment takes place in the spring. Follow these step-by-step instructions in the tip sheet, Self Service-Manage, View, and Change Your Benefits (pdf). Benefits-eligible workers can easily access their current benefits information in Workday. Current workers may also change benefits in Workday with a qualifying event such as marriage or loss of coverage. Can you manage dependents in Workday? Yes, you can view and manage beneficiaries, edit an existing beneficiary, or add new beneficiaries in Workday. This includes all information about beneficiaries including their relationship to you, their age, and the benefit elections in which they are included. Will you be able to compare prices for different benefit plans in Workday? Yes, you can view prices of different plans and compare the plans side-by-side during enrollment or as a new hire. Who can answer questions about your specific health care benefits? The benefits call center is available at 1-866-799-2329. Back to top Pay, Payroll Tax, and Compensation Expand all Collapse all Your Workday: Taxes How can you view relevant tax information? From the Workday homepage, click the pay application. From this page, under the pay column, you can click on withholding elections, tax documents, or BSI Tax Withholding Form. Learn how to view your tax elections in this Self Service-Manage Your Payroll and Compensation Information (pdf) tip sheet or access the BSI Tax Withholding Form in Workday and complete various tax forms including the W-4 in the Self Service-Access to W-2, W-4, and State Reciprocal Forms (pdf) tip sheet. Can you update your W4 withholdings in Workday? Yes, you can do this in the pay application under withholding elections. See this Self Service-Access to W-2, W-4, and State Reciprocal Forms (pdf) tip sheet. Your Workday: Payroll Will payslips before July 1, 2019 be available in Workday? No. Workday will only have payslips from July 1, 2019 onward. Please access this U@Penn application for pay advices for pay dates prior to July 12, 2019. These will be available here for 18 months after the pay date. When can new workers select their payment elections? If you are a new worker, you can select your pay elections (direct deposit) during onboarding. See this set of Workday tip sheets for new hires on this website. What payment elections do you have in Workday? Workday gives you the flexibility to easily add up to three financial institutions for direct deposit accounts. See the tip sheet, Self Service-Manage Your Payroll and Compensation Information (pdf) for step-by-step information. Once you have added two (or three) accounts, you can update your payment election information. Workday enables you to choose a primary, balance account and up to two secondary accounts. You can select the amount of money from each paycheck, or the percentage of each paycheck, that you would like sent to the second and/or third account. Can you view your payslip in Workday? You can view your current pay slip, and historical payslips in Workday from July 1, 2019 onward. The payslip is formatted to easily see gross and net pay, pre-tax deductions, taxable wages, and employer-paid benefits. You can download your payslip into a PDF format. See the tip sheet (pdf) Self Service-Understand Your Payslip. Your Workday: Compensation What compensation information is in Workday? Detailed compensation information for staff and academic workers includes a breakdown of total rewards, including benefits and allowance. See this Self Service-Manage Your Payroll and Compensation Information (pdf) tip sheet. Personal Information Expand all Collapse all Your Workday: Personal Information What personal information can I view and update in Workday? In Workday, you will find the following information: home address, email address, mobile phone number, and emergency contact information. Workday enables you to change your home contact information, emergency contact information, and preferred/legal name at any time. See Self Service-Modify Your Personal Information (pdf) tip sheet for step-by-step instructions. Are my job details in Workday? Yes, Workday has detailed job information include your location, manager, employee ID, organization, position, and business title. If your job details require a change, please contact your manager or Workday HR analyst. Only those with the appropriate security roles in Workday@Penn are able to change job details. Back to top Time Off and Leave of Absence Expand all Collapse all Your Workday: Leave of Absence How do you request a leave of absence? Workers can request certain types of leave of absence in the Time and Absence application in Workday. From this page, workers enter details of their leave, including last day of work, the first day of leave, the estimated last day of leave, and any other relevant comments. The request is then automatically routed to the appropriate approver(s). You may also use the Self Service-Request Leave of Absence (pdf) tip sheet for step-by-step instructions. Academic workers may use the Self Service-Request Academic Leave of Absence (pdf) tip sheet. How do you return from absence? Employees can request a return from leave of absence from all types of leave except for disability leaves. Your Workday: Time Off Who can submit time off requests in Workday? All eligible workers submit time off requests in Workday. See tip sheets to show you step-by-step instructions: Self Service-Request Time Off (pdf) and Self Service-Request Leave of Absence (pdf). Managers and others with the appropriate security roles may use a variety of tip sheets to manage leave and absence. The catalog of manager tip sheets are located on the Workday@Penn website. Can you view your time off balance in Workday? Yes, you can view your current time off balance. Workday also has a feature which enables workers to view future time off balances. This allows workers to plan PTO and manage their time proactively. Please see the Self Service-Request Time Off (pdf) tip sheet. What will happen to your sick-leave balance in Workday? Sick leave is accrued based on a staff member's regularly scheduled hours of work. A full-time staff member accrues sick leave at the rate of one (1) day (8 hours based on 40 hours per week) per completed month of service. A regular, part-time staff member accrues sick leave on a pro-rata basis. The maximum sick leave accumulation is twenty-four (24) workdays (192 hours based on 40 hours per week), or the balance accrued as of 6/30/2016 (not to exceed 90 days). Those with a balance higher than 24 days will not collect any additional time in Workday until the balance drops below 24 days. Workday will not take any current sick leave balance away. Note that special rules apply to staff covered by Sick Policy 613. How do you request time off? To request time off (e.g., paid time off, sick leave) workers request time using the Time Off and Leave application on the Workday homepage. Time off requests are automatically routed to managers for approval. For step-by-step instructions, please use the Self Service-Request Time Off (pdf) tip sheet. Will you be notified when your time off is approved? Yes, you will receive a notification in your Workday inbox once your time request is approved. The time off will also appear as approved, blocked time in your calendar. Time Tracking Expand all Collapse all Your Workday: Time Tracking Who is required to enter time into Workday? All non-exempt, weekly paid workers are required to enter time in Workday. View the catalog of self-service tips sheets on the Workday@Penn website for your particular situation. How often are you required to enter time into Workday? Timesheets are submitted weekly by non-exempt workers. This leaves you the flexibility to enter time daily, every two days, or once a week – as long as your timesheet is submitted weekly. However, it is strongly encouraged to enter your time daily. If you record your time manually on site, do you also enter your time in Workday? No. Some workers use timeclocks to capture in and out punches for hours that are automatically sent to Workday. Workday will automatically submit hours on behalf of the worker, and managers will approve the workers’ timesheets. For step-by-step instructions, use this Self Service-Time Entry Timeclocks (pdf) tip sheet. When is my timesheet due in Workday? Your timesheet is due every Sunday at 9:00 pm ET. What do you do if you forget to submit your timesheet in Workday? If you forget to submit your timesheet, contact your manager as soon as possible. Your manager will work with you to enter your time. Back to top Training Expand all Collapse all Training FAQs Who requires training? If you are a human resources, payroll, faculty affairs or business administrator your position may have a security role that requires training to accomplish your responsibilities. Learn more about security roles. Do all workers have required training? No. Penn workers who only use Workday as a self-service platform, do not supervise others, and do not have a more robust HR/payroll role do not have required training. Workers with self-service access to Workday have computer-based learning (CBL) available to them to learn how to monitor their own information, declare life events, manage beneficiaries, enter direct deposit information, access tax documents, enter and correct time, view time off balances, request time off and leaves of absence, and view academic appointment information. View the catalog which will direct you to the Knowledge Link courses. What are tip sheets? Tip sheets describe in step-by-step fashion how to initiate and step through many different business processes in Workday. Tip Sheets are housed in a library on a PennKey-protected training webpage. Do student workers have required training? Student workers do not have required training. They have access to two online videos: One shows the self-service features of Workday, and one walks through time entry. Students may also use Tip Sheets in the self-service category. If a student worker supervises other student workers, we can provide them access to Workday time tracking training in Knowledge Link. If you have any student workers in that category, please contact the Penn Employee Solution Center. Is manager training required? Managers have training that is strongly recommended. Any school or center can require that training and track it via Knowledge Link. What do I do if I have been assigned a course or a curriculum of courses in Knowledge Link that I do not need, or if I have the wrong security role? You have been assigned required Workday courses based on your security role(s) which were assigned at the local level within your school or center. To find out about your security role and required training, you should contact your local Penn Workday Security Partners. Your security partner can explain why you were assigned your security role. If your security role needs to be changed, they have access to a security change process. They will let us know to edit your Knowledge Link learning plan. What are Office Hours? Office Hours provide those with security roles the opportunity to work through live scenarios in Workday with a member of the Workday@Penn team. You will work directly with real data and automatic approval flows. Workday Security Expand all Collapse all Your Workday 1: Security Is your personal information safe? Workday uses a number of approaches to protect the security of client data. Transactions are encrypted both in transit and at rest, as well with geo-sensing, where certain transactions can only be done locally or in certain jurisdictions. Details on Workday security can be found on the Workday website. In addition, Penn's Office of Audit, Compliance and Privacy (OACP) functions in partnership with University and Penn Medicine management to anticipate and aggressively manage operational, financial, compliance, strategic and reputational risks; ensure the integrity of Penn's systems of internal control; and ensure strong stewardship and management accountability at all levels. Learn how you can contribute to protecting your data, including policies, guidance, tips, assessment procedures, tools and more on the OACP website. Back to top University of Pennsylvania Workday@Penn University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 Workday-Announcement@upenn.edu Home Penn Home Penn HR Payroll U@Penn Copyright © 2022 The University of Pennsylvania Copyright Equal Opportunity Employer Legal Notices Clery Act Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help