Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Visit Brown Whether exploring Brown virtually or visiting our campus in Providence, discover if College Hill feels like home. Visit Brown Whether exploring Brown virtually or visiting our campus in Providence, discover if College Hill feels like home. Registration for in-person campus tours is now available and we will also continue to offer a variety of virtual visit programming and ways to connect with Brown from home. Please be aware that in-person programming is subject to change in accordance with changing public health guidelines, and students and families planning to explore College Hill should familiarize themselves with Brown's policies and health protocols before visiting. Detailed information on mask protocols and other health and safety guidance is available through the Healthy Brown website. Brown offers a variety of programming designed to help you learn more about the academic experience, campus life, financial aid and the admission process. You’ll see a number of offerings below, many of which will allow you to connect with the best representatives of our community - current Brown students! Get to know our Tour Guides and Student Admission Representatives through the Student Ambassador profiles available on our website. You'll find that these Brunonians can speak to many different facets of life on College Hill, and are united by a common interest - sharing their Brown experience with prospective students. Campus Tours Get to know Brown’s campus and community! Live Q&A with Brown Admission and a Current Student Connect with admission officers and current students to get answers to your questions. Virtual Student Chats Connect with current students for an inside look into life on College Hill. Information Session Watch a recorded information session presented by the Dean of Admission and admission officers to learn about the academic experience, including the Open Curriculum, advising, research, the application process and financial aid. Sustainability Tour The Sustainability Tour introduces prospective students to sustainable initiatives at Brown including composting, recycling, LEED buildings, local food and alternative living options. Current Brown students share their experiences with sustainability at Brown and how students can get involved inside and outside the classroom. This tour is run by the Brown Office of Sustainability. REGISTER FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY TOUR Virtual Tour of Brown Virtual Tour Travel and Lodging Directions and Parking Brown's campus is located in Providence, Rhode Island. Here's what you need to know about coming by car. Visit Page Open details for Directions and Parking Accommodations Spending the night in Providence? See our list of partner hotels that offer discounted pricing. Visit Page Open details for Accommodations Interactive Campus Map This interactive campus map highlights campus buildings, exterior spaces, departments, rooms and more. Visit Page Open details for Interactive Campus Map Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Visit Brown Open details for Visit Brown Bookmark this Page