Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Student Activities & Leadership Development SALD right arrow down arrow About Us right arrow down arrow SALD Team Our Approach Our Committees Contact Us UC LEAD right arrow down arrow Camp Bearcats Lead and Grow Grant Leadership Certificate Leadership Week LEAD Modules Career Leader Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Student Activities Board Manage your Organization UC Club Sports CampusLINK Get Engaged | Build Connections Student Organization Awards Student Organization Fair Funding right arrow down arrow University Funding Board Programming right arrow down arrow Workshops Programs & Activities Council FAQs Home » Campus Life » Student Activities and Leadership Development » Student Organizations » UC Club Sports UC Club Sports Fill Out the Club Sports Interest Form CampusLINK Student Organization Resources Over 50 student-athletes came to join forces with the Special Olympics of Hamilton County for the bi-annual Unified Sports event in February 2020. What is Club Sports? UC Club Sports organizations are defined as a registered student organization (RSO) that exists to promote and develop interest in a particular sport or physical activity while also building valuable leadership skills. The UC Club Sports Program provides a wide range of instructional, recreational, and competitive athletic opportunities, with an emphasis on student leadership, organization, and team management. The 45+ club sports organizations offer students a chance to be part of a team, run an organization, and represent University of Cincinnati while competing against and traveling to other universities. Many of our clubs compete at an elite level and contest for National Championships in their sport. Find a list of our Club Sports on CampusLINK Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Our Focus and Why You Should Participate Club Sports is a designed extracurricular program that contribute's the student learning experience. Therefore, by participating in Club Sports students will: Develop and demonstrate leadership skills and competencies relevant to career-readiness Develop a commitment to the University of Cincinnati through friendships, experiential learning as an organizational leader, student-athlete, and other engagement opportunities Gain experience in organizational leadership, event management, and business processes Gain a sense of belonging to UC and the community through self-discovery Replace with your text Student-Athlete Resources right arrow down arrow Below are some resources for prospective and current student-athletes of the UC Club Sports program: Student Organization Resources Registered Student Organization Handbook Club Sports Handbook Club Sports Documents Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow 1. What are the requirements to participate in UC Club Sports? All UC Club Sport student-athletes must have a minimum university cumulative GPA of 2.3 and a semester a 2.0 semester GPA. Officers/Leaders of UC Club Sport organizations must have a 2.5 university cumalative GPA. 2. Are there tryouts? UC Club Sports is a "no-cut" program meaning that no student should be turned away from participation in the organization. However, competitive/travel teams can be formed based on skill level. 3. What is the cost to participate in a UC Club Sport? Each UC Club Sport organization establishes "Dues" based on level of participation for their respective organization. These costs range from $50-$2,500 per year. If you have questions about a particular organization's dues, we recommend you reach out to the organization via CampusLINK. 4. When and where do UC Club Sports travel? Our organizations primarily only travel on the weekends to events and competitions, however, some organizations may schedule away events during the week sparingly. Our organizations have collectively visited 42 states but each organization makes their travel schedule based on their respective needs. "Request for Absence" letters can be provided for those student-athletes who may occassionally miss class for a club sport event. 5. How do I get involved? Complete the UC Club Sports Interest Form, contact an organization from the CampusLINK Club Sports List, or send us an email! Club Sports Board right arrow down arrow Who are we? We are a dedicated group of current UC Club Sport student-athletes committed to governance of our 44 active UC Club Sport organiziations by attending monthly meetings. The Executive Board consists of 5-7 students who meet bi-weekly and serve as liasions of the Club Sports program. What do we do? During bi-weekly executive board meetings (2nd and 4th Tuesday of the month) we work in conjunction with the Program Coordinator and Graduate Assistant to develop processes, programs, and events that make the UC Club Sports program better for all student-athletes. One of our sub-committees, Club Sports Allocation Committee (CSAC), handles the allocation process for all UC Club Sport organization, thus, giving the students a voice in the program! How do I contact you? We can be reached best via email or you can visit us in the SALD Club Sports Resource Center located in Steger Student Life Center 669 Monday-Thursday 10a-3p! UC Esports right arrow down arrow UC Esports Club offers an array of competitive and recreational titles for students including RocketLeague (RL), League of Legends (LoL), Rainbow 6 (R6), OverWatch (OW), and many more! Interested and current student members should visit Esports @ UC CampusLINK page, Discord, or UC Esports Handbook for more information or check out the Esports Showcase to be held during Welcome Week 2022! University of Cincinnati 455 Steger Student Life Center Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6115 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 455 Steger Student Life Center Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6115 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top