Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Sarah Dryden-Peterson Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Faculty & Research Sarah Dryden-Peterson Associate Professor of Education Degree: Ed.D., Harvard University, (2009); M.A., Tufts University, (2000); M.Phil., University of Cape Town, (2000) Email: [javascript protected email address] Phone: 617.495.8142 Personal Site: Link to Site Vitae/CV: Sarah Dryden-Peterson.pdf Office: Gutman 457 Office Hours Contact: Email the Faculty Assistant to set up the appointment Faculty Assistant: Wendy Angus Profile Sarah Dryden-Peterson leads a research program that focuses on the connections between education and community development, specifically the role that education plays in building peaceful and participatory societies. In her field-based research globally, in her teaching, and in her role as founder and director of Refugee REACH, she examines what it would take for all children to access quality education, be part of welcoming communities, and contribute to building peaceful futures. Her research connects practice, policy, and scholarship and is strengthened through sustained collaborations with communities, NGOs, governments, and UN agencies, with a focus on low- and middle-income countries particularly those that are conflict-affected. Dryden-Peterson’s research has played critical roles in shaping global policy and local programs that have the potential to create quality, conflict-informed, and future-creating education for millions of children globally in settings of migration and displacement. Raised in Toronto, Canada, Dryden-Peterson taught primary and middle school in Madagascar, South Africa, and the United States. Learn more about her academic research publications and her Mowana Research Lab. Click here to see a full list of Sarah Dryden-Peterson's courses. Areas of Expertise Civic EducationDiversityFamily IssuesImmigrant IssuesInternational EducationResearch Methods Research Breaking the Link Between Exclusion and Conflict: Education in Botswana This study examines the role of education in socio-political stability in Botswana, particularly how students learn through formal education about national belonging, ways of contributing to society, and dissent. Data include interviews, school-based observation, and participatory action research with Junior Secondary School students. Funded by the Harvard Academy Junior Faculty Development Grant and the Harvard Research Enabling Grant. Principal Investigator: Sarah Dryden-Peterson. Education’s Role in Migration Decision-Making: Syrian refugee youth in Lebanon This study examines the complex interplay between conflict, education, and migration. Through longitudinal qualitative data collected with Syrian refugees in Lebanon, we seek to understand how young people in conflict settings experience and explain migration decisions and the connection between those decisions and their views of and experiences with education. Funded by the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs Grant for Faculty Research. Principal Investigator: Sarah Dryden-Peterson. Learning for All: Improving Access to a Meaningful Education Globally This study aims to identify and test promising local and global levers to improve literacy and civic engagement for all students. The project is comparative, with sites in Peru, Colombia, Botswana, and Brazil and includes partnerships with Ministries of Education and universities. Funded by the Harvard Graduate School of Education Dean’s Venture Fund, the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs, the Harvard Center for African Studies, and the Lemann Brazil Research Fund at Harvard University. Co-Investigators: Felipe Barrera-Osorio, Sarah Dryden-Peterson, and Paola Uccelli. Transnationalism in Refugee Education: Harnessing Resources through Diaspora This study examines the ways in which Somali refugee students in refugee camps and Somali Diaspora outside of refugee camps build and sustain relationships, and the benefits they draw from these relationships, particularly related to education. Data include in-depth interviews with young people in the Dadaab refugee camps in Kenya and an online survey of Somali Diaspora. Funded by the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs Grant for Faculty Research. Principal Investigator: Sarah Dryden-Peterson. Development and Implementation of Refugee Education Strategies This study investigates the processes of implementing the UNHCR Education Strategy 2012-2016 in 14 priority countries (Bangladesh, Chad, Egypt, Ethiopia, Iran, Kenya, Lebanon, Malaysia, Pakistan, Rwanda, South Sudan, Sudan, Uganda, and Yemen). Data include documents, interviews, and field-based case studies. Funded by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Principal Investigator: Sarah Dryden-Peterson. Diaspora Involvement in Educational Development in Conflict-Affected Settings: Transnational innovations in provision of high quality education for marginalized children The study aims examines promising transnational educational practices and partnerships between Diasporas, Ministries of Education, donors, NGOs, and local communities in addressing the global challenge of providing quality education for children in conflict settings. Data include in-depth interviews. Funded by the Harvard University William F. Milton Fund and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada. Principal Investigator: Sarah Dryden-Peterson. Awards Palmer O. Johnson Award for outstanding article, American Educational Research Association,(2018) National Academy of Education/Spencer Foundation, Postdoctoral Fellowship, 2015-2017,(2015) Joyce Cain Award for distinguished research on African descendants, Comparative & International Education Society,(2011) Postdoctoral Fellowship, Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (2009-2012),(2009) Spencer Foundation Research Training Grant (2006-2007),(2006) Harvard University Presidential Fellow (2003-2007),(2003) Fulbright Scholar, Uganda (2002-2003),(2002) Sponsored Projects Refugee Education: Building Durable futures (REBuilD) (2018-2020) Peace Research Institute Oslo REBuilD examines the structures, content, and pedagogy of education across different types of education. Three sites have been selected for study Â– Lebanon, Kenya and Uganda Â–that allow to study three models:Â• Integration of refugees in national schools where refugee schools are spatially separate in camps (Kenya)Â• Integration into national schools where children of refugees and citizens go to school in different shifts (Lebanon)Â• Full integration in national schools (Uganda)Dr. Dryden-Peterson is responsible for site research in Lebanon. The study explores how refugeesÂ’ daily experiences in classrooms affect their current membership in society civically, politically, socially, and culturally. With a research design that purposively compares different types of education, study will be able to draw conclusions that can inform policy and programming about school structures, content, and pedagogy. News Stories Harvard EdCast: How We Can Better Support Refugees in Education Protecting the Futures of Refugee Children We See You Creating Change in Real Time Making Space for Difficult Discussions Innovations that Transformed Instruction A Path to Opportunity for Refugees Learning and Community in a Time of Crisis Providing Stability in a Time of Crisis Reaching for a Positive Future for Refugees In this section Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Sarah Dryden-Peterson Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice