Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Kevin J. Heaney Vice President for Advancement Website Giving to Princeton Phone 609-258-3938 Bio Kevin J. Heaney was appointed Princeton University’s first vice president for advancement in November 2016. He serves as a member of the President’s Cabinet and leads staff members in University Advancement, who seek to engage Princeton’s remarkable alumni, parents, and friends in the life of the University in order to marshal their talents and generosity in furtherance of the University and its mission. Heaney and his team work closely with President Eisgruber to maintain a positive and productive relationship with the entire Princeton alumni body, as well as with key University donors and stakeholders. The advancement team supports the work of the Alumni Council and class, regional, and affiliated groups, organizing programs such as Reunions, Alumni Day, and affinity conferences. They also support the Princeton Prize in Race Relations, which recognizes high school students who significantly engage and challenge their schools or communities to advance racial equity, and Princeton Journeys, which combine intellectual enrichment with world travel. Advancement is responsible for engaging alumni, parents, and friends of the University to raise critically important philanthropic support for the University’s highest priorities, including Annual Giving and gifts designated for a specific purpose or through estate planning. In addition, the office is responsible for ensuring that donors are both appropriately recognized and informed about the impact their gifts make on Princeton’s mission of teaching and research. Before joining Princeton, Heaney served for nearly a decade at the Oregon State University (OSU) Foundation as the vice president for constituent and central development programs and deputy campaign director. He played a key role in OSU’s first comprehensive fundraising campaign, which surpassed its $1 billion goal 11 months ahead of schedule. Before OSU, Heaney served in a variety of development positions at Georgetown University, Johns Hopkins University, and Harvard University. During his career, he has been part of five highly successful campaigns and has been an active member of the broader development community, chairing seven national conferences on campaign fundamentals and strategies for the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education (CASE). He received the CASE Crystal Apple Award for Teaching Excellence in 2017. He has served as a faculty member of both the CASE Summer Institute for Educational Fundraising and CASE’s Inspiring the Largest Gifts of a Lifetime conferences. A graduate of the University of Cincinnati, Heaney has a master’s degree from Columbia University and a law degree from Boston College. Our Leadership Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice