Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Human Resources> Benefits> Lactation Support - Version 2 Lactation Support Version 2 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Current Version Compare 2 Versions Policy REG06.10.02 Title Lactation Support Category Human Resources Sub-category Benefits Authority Chancellor History ECU Regulation approved as permanent March 16, 2015. The North Carolina Office of State Personnel requires that State Agencies provide space, privacy, and time for nursing mothers to express breast milk, in compliance with Section 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 207) as amended by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R. 3590) which was signed into law on March 23, 2010. Contact Benefits Administration (328-9887), Employee Relations (328-9848) or appropriate Personnel Administration Office (328-2679 or 744-1910) Related Policies State Human Resources Manual: Workplace Environment, Health, Wellness and Work/Life (pdf) Additional References Breastfeeding Promotion and Support North Carolina Breastfeeding Coalition HRSA Business Case for Breastfeeding Available Lactation Rooms 1. Introduction It is the intent of East Carolina University to be recognized as a family friendly workplace by assisting working mothers with the transition back to work following the birth of a child by providing lactation support. A lactation support program allows a nursing mother to express breast milk periodically during the work day. 2. Departmental Responsibilities Departments within East Carolina University will provide space, privacy, and time for nursing mothers to express breast milk for up to one year after the birth of a child. 2.1. Information Employees shall be advised of this program at the time of application for maternity leave by the appropriate Benefits Counselor. In addition, information regarding this program will be available on appropriate websites. 2.2. Space At an employees request, departments will work with the employee to provide a designated private space that is not in a restroom or other common area for the expression of breast milk for up to one year after the birth of a child. 2.2.1. The space should have a door that can be secured or locked, adequate lighting and seating, and electrical outlets for pumping equipment. 2.2.2. To the extent practicable, the space should be in the proximity of the employees work area and relatively close to a source of running water. 2.2.3. Supervisors are encouraged to work with employees to find appropriate locations for expression, and can contact the appropriate Benefits Counselor for assistance in locating an appropriate space. 2.3. Time Departments may require the employee to use the regularly scheduled paid break time to express breast milk. If time is needed beyond the regularly scheduled paid break times, departments shall make reasonable efforts to allow employees to use paid leave, unpaid time, or make arrangements for a flexible work schedule for this purpose. 2.4 This policy is applicable to ECU employees only and does not require ECU to provide similar resources to members of the general public. 3. Employee Responsibility 3.1. Communication with Management Employees who wish to participate in this program should discuss this with their supervisor prior to and/or upon return from maternity leave. If an employee wishes, she may consult with her Benefits Counselor to facilitate this discussion. Employees should coordinate with management a mutually agreeable schedule and keep management informed of any additional needs so that appropriate coverage and accommodations can be made. 3.2. Storage - The employee will be responsible for storage of the expressed breast milk. If the expressed breast milk is stored in a University owned refrigerator, all containers must be clearly labeled with name and date. 3.3 Maintenance of Lactation Rooms Employees will be responsible for keeping any general lactation room clean and orderly. Employees will also be responsible for their own expressing equipment, supplies, and personal belongings. 4. Benefits for the University This program will yield positive results, such as reduced healthcare cost, reduced absenteeism, improved productivity, lower turnover, and an enhanced university image. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier