Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator Type of Awards The Office of Financial Aid is dedicated to assisting students in accomplishing their academic goals by minimizing financial barriers. FAFSA applicants will be considered for all types of financial aid listed below. CA Dream Act applicants will be considered for state funded programs denoted with an asterisk (*). Students who demonstrate significant financial need may qualify for grant aid while students with less need may obtain low cost loans. Your financial aid is awarded based on full-time enrollment (12 or more units), and will be adjusted at the University Census Date - established by Registration and Records - based on your final enrollment status. CSU NET PRICE & COST CALCULATOR (CSUNPCC) Use the net price calculator to get an estimate of your financial aid eligibility. The use of the net price calculator does not constitute an actual financial aid award. To receive financial aid from a California State University campus, you must complete either the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or the California Dream Act (CDA) Application. See How to Apply. Eligibility for financial aid is the amount that remains after the student's Expected Family Contribution (EFC) is subtracted from the cost of education. The cost of education is the amount the University estimates the student will spend to attend college for the academic year. The cost of education includes the basic tuition fee, various campus-based fees, room and board, books, supplies, transportation and miscellaneous personal expenses. Private Loans Private educational loans have different terms and conditions compared to the Federal Direct loans. To better your search and obtain competitive interest rates, we highly advise you to compare current Federal Direct loan options prior to seeking private funding. Private educational loans, also known as Alternative Education Loans, help bridge the gap between the actual cost of your education and the amount of your other financial aid funds. Private loans are nonfederal loans, made by a lender such as a bank or a credit union. These credit-based consumer loans often carry a higher interest rate and fees than the federal loan programs. If you have exhausted all sources of federal funding and decide to borrow a private loan, compare lenders to ensure you are making the best choice for you. Private Education Loan Applicant Self-Certification Federal Grants Pell Grant TEACH Grant State Grant Cal Grant * State University Grant * Golden State Teacher Grant (GSTG) Federal Direct Loans Subsidized Parent Plus Loan - Dependent Credential Student Only OTHER SOURCE Scholarships Student's Financial Aid Exceeding their Cost of Attendance (Over-Award) All financial aid funds are accounted to the student's Cost of Attendance. A student's financial aid award cannot exceed the student's Cost of Attendance. If a student receives financial aid exceeding the Cost of Attendance - causing an over-award - the Office of Financial Aid, will reduce the student's aid -- starting with the least desirable aid. A student may be billed because of the Over-award. This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.