Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Teacher Prep helps students move to front of the class by the Office of Communications Feb. 29, 2016, noon On the Princeton University campus, Raven DeRamus is a senior English major. On the nearby campus of Princeton High School, she is Ms. DeRamus, a student teacher. DeRamus is one of 11 participants in Princeton's Program in Teacher Preparation who spent the fall as student teachers at schools across central New Jersey. In this video, DeRamus, fellow student teacher Kanoa Mulling, a member of the Class of 2015, and Teacher Prep alumna Barbara Fortunato share their experiences in the program. "Now that I'm doing student teaching, I realize it's really, really for me," DeRamus said. "It took me some experimenting and reflecting to get here. And I appreciate that about the Teacher Prep program. They really make you think about why you're doing what you're doing at the very beginning. So I really came to terms with the kind of person that I am and the kinds of things I want out of life and people I want to interact and what I imagine my days being like." For nearly half a century, Teacher Prep has trained undergraduates, graduate students and alumni to serve as teachers. The program includes classroom observation, courses on educational psychology, teaching and educational issues, and a semester of practice teaching in a middle or secondary school. Teacher Prep participants doing their student teaching in the fall of 2015 included one member of the Class of 2016, seven members of the Class of 2015, one member of the Class of 1992 and a member of the Class of 1988. Teacher Prep alumni have gone on to become classroom teachers and school administrators, as well as to careers in education policy. "Every day, Teacher Prep graduates are changing the world — one student, one class, one school, at a time," said Christopher Campisano, director of Teacher Prep. "By using their talent and their imagination, they are creating alternative narratives and introducing their students to new realities and possibilities. One of the highlights I experienced in the recent past was to work with a student who decided to become a teacher as a result of being taught by a Teacher Prep graduate." Play video: Play Video: Teacher Prep helps students move to front of the class; Video embed #1 In this video, student teachers Raven DeRamus and Kanoa Mulling and Teacher Prep alumna Barbara Fortunato share their experiences in the program. (Video by Danielle Alio, Office of Communications) Related Stories Teacher Prep helps students move to front of the class Read more Being composed: The art of learning to write music Read more Princeton to honor four outstanding New Jersey secondary school teachers Read more Teacher Prep celebrates 50 years of service through teaching Read more Princeton to honor four exceptional New Jersey secondary school teachers Read more 'Will I fit in here?' Students share their diverse Princeton experiences Read more A second chance through Princeton's Prison Teaching Initiative Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice