Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home People : International Students International Students Welcome to UT Austin We know that coming to a new country, new city and new school can be overwhelming, so we’ve prepared several resources to help you learn about your surroundings and get started at UT. TOEFL and IELTS Testing International students whose native language is not English must also submit scores on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or the International English Language Testing System (IELTS). Applicants should consult the graduate adviser for the program of interest to learn which test the program requires. There is no institutional code for the IELTS examination. Test takers should have their official score sent to UT Austin at the following address: Graduate and International Admissions Center The University of Texas at Austin P.O. Box 7608 Austin, Texas 78713-7608 A score of 550 (paper test), 213 (computer-based test), or 79 (internet-based test) on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or an overall band of 6.5 on the Academic Examination of the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) is considered the minimum acceptable for admission to The University of Texas at Austin and the School of Information. TOEFL or IELTS Exemptions International applicants who are from a qualifying country (see list below) are exempt from this testing requirement. Additionally, applicants are exempt from the requirement if they possess a bachelor’s degree from a U.S. institution or a qualifying country. The requirement is not waived for applicants who have earned a master's—but not a bachelor's—degree from a similar institution. American Samoa Australia Bahamas Barbados Belize Canada (except Quebec) Dominica Grenada Grand Cayman Guyana India Ireland Jamaica Liberia New Zealand Singapore Trinidad/Tobago Turks and Caicos Islands United Kingdom U.S. Pacific Trust Information concerning TOEFL schedules and test centers may be obtained from U.S. consulates or binational cultural centers in many countries or from the TOEFL web site. The International English Language Testing System (IELTS) is administered in more than 120 countries and is available off-site in additional countries. Information about IELTS test dates, locations, and procedures is published online. The School reserves the right to require a re-administration of the TOEFL in Austin and/or to require an international student to take remedial work in English. The Graduate School offers courses in writing for graduate students for whom English is a second language. The School of Information often recommends that students who need further work with written English take these courses. What you need to know to Maintain Your Immigration Status. Please visit the UT iSchool's page on Curricular Practical Training (CPT) for information on how to review and adhere to the International Office's CPT procedures. International Students and Scholar Services Global engagement is woven throughout Texas' history and it is also a critical part of The University of Texas at Austin’s future. UT Austin is proud to be a leader in groundbreaking research and transformative learning. We provide access to a world-class education in a welcoming environment where knowledge, discovery, and collaboration are the catalysts to solving challenges impacting our state and beyond. Life at UT This guide covers everything from pre-arrival plans and airport information to how to find housing and medical care in Austin. Explore Texas Want to know about shopping, restaurants or how to get around Austin? This is the place to go. Advising and Services Whether you have a general question or need to request immigration services, ISSS's knowledgeable immigration advisors are dedicated to ensuring you have the information and guidance you need for a successful experience. UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022