Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES JACKSON SCHOOL INTERNATIONAL STUDIES JEWISH STUDIES Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 JEW ST 130 Justice, Service, and Activism in the Jewish Tradition (5) I&S, DIV Pianko Focuses on thinking critically about justice and social activism by integrating classroom and community learning. Uses the rich textual tradition of Judaism and the experiences of American Jewish social activists as a prism for considering the possibilities and challenges of pursing social justice around the globe. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 130 JEW ST 145 Introduction to Judaism (5) I&S Explores Judaism's sacred texts, holidays, and beliefs. Addresses Judaism's impact on society, culture, and politics. Through the lens of the Jewish experience, grapples with fundamental questions about the role of individuals and members of larger communities in an increasingly multicultural, religious, and interconnected world. Offered: jointly with RELIG 145. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 145 JEW ST 175 Popular Film and the Holocaust (5) VLPA, DIV Introduces films about the Holocaust with particular emphasis on popular films. Develops the requisite tools for analyzing films, a historical perspective of the Holocaust, and the problems involved in trying to represent a historical event whose tragic dimensions exceed the limits of the imagination. Offered: jointly with GERMAN 195. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 175 JEW ST 199 Study Abroad: Jewish Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For articipants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 199 JEW ST 206 Violence and Contemporary Thought (5) I&S, DIV Nicolaas P. Barr Modern and contemporary ideas about violence and their emergence as intellectual responses to historical events. Topics may include histories of physical violence, such as slavery, colonialism, or the Holocaust, as well as structural forms of violence. Offered: jointly with CHID 206; A. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 206 JEW ST 210 Funny Jews: Jewish Humor and American Identity (5) VLPA Jewish humor plays an important role in American popular culture. Investigates the modern history of Jewish humor through the writers, comedians, and actors who have shaped American comedy. Discusses the purpose of humor and the role that Jewish humor plays in shaping American and American Jewish identity. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 210 JEW ST 215 Ladino Language and Culture (5) I&S/VLPA Fundamental elements of Modern Ladino, the traditional language of Sephardic Jews of the Balkans and Middle East, including the traditional Hebrew-based alphabet and its Romanization, and basic grammar, syntax and lexicon. Historical stages in the development of Ladino and the social and cultural life of modern Ladino speakers. No prior knowledge of Spanish or Hebrew required. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 215 JEW ST 250 Introduction to Jewish Cultural History (5) I&S Introductory orientation to the settings in which Jews have marked out for themselves distinctive identities as a people, a culture, and as a religious community. Examines Jewish cultural history as a production of Jewish identity that is always produced in conversation with others in the non-Jewish world. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 250. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 250 JEW ST 258 Introduction to Rabbinic Literature (5) I&S/VLPA Investigates the origins of Judaism through the works of the rabbis. The Judaism that prevails today arose after the Romans' destruction of the temple in Palestine in 70 CE. Discusses the rabbinic movement, its writings, and its Greco-Roman as well as Babylonian-Persian context. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 258 JEW ST 269 The Holocaust: History and Memory (5) I&S, DIV Explores the Holocaust as crucial event of the twentieth century. Examines the origins of the Holocaust, perpetrators and victims, and efforts to come to terms with this genocide in Europe, Israel, and the United States. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 269. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 269 JEW ST 270 Race, Religion, and Migration in Global Context (5) I&S, DIV Devin E Naar Migration of "Middle Easterners" - Jews, Christians, and Muslims - from the Ottoman Empire to the United States in the twentieth century. How their experiences shaped, and were shaped by, the development of racial categories, definitions of citizenship and national belonging, and broader political, religious, and cultural dynamics linking the Mediterranean world to the Americas. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 270. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 270 JEW ST 289 Special Topics in Jewish Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 289 JEW ST 295 The Contributions of German Jews to German Culture (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV Contribution, assimilation, and alienation of German-speaking Jews - such as Karl Marx, Sigmund Freud, and Franz Kafka - emphasizing the multi-cultural nature of that which is understood as "German culture." Offered: jointly with GERMAN 295. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 295 JEW ST 312 Jewish Literature: Biblical to Modern (5) I&S/VLPA, DIV A study of Jewish literature from Biblical narrative and rabbinic commentary to modern prose and poetry with intervening texts primarily organized around major themes: martyrdom and suffering, destruction and exile, messianism, Hasidism and Enlightenment, Yiddishism and Zionism. Various critical approaches; geographic and historic contexts. Offered: jointly with ENGL 312. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 312 JEW ST 317 From Israelites to Jews: the First Six Centuries BCE (3) VLPA/I&S Traces the Israelites, from the Babylonian destruction of the Jerusalemite Temple (586 BCE) to events following the destruction of the second Temple (first century CE). Focuses on primary historical and literary sources as well as archaeological and artistic evidence. No knowledge of Hebrew or the Bible required. Offered: jointly with NEAR E 307. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 317 JEW ST 318 Jewish Life in Literature and Film (5) VLPA/I&S Major themes of Jewish life treated in modern narrative and cinema. Topics include religious tradition and modernity. Jewish immigration to America, responses to the Holocaust and Zionism. Offered: jointly with NEAR E 317. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 318 JEW ST 324 Food Cultures, Race, and Identity in the Hispanic and Sephardic Worlds (3) I&S, DIV Food cultures and practices and their intersections with the construction of racial or racialized identities in the Hispanic and Sephardic worlds. Addresses issues of diversity through examining the role of food in creating power differentials and racialized identities. Food practices in the Hispanic and Sephardic worlds in a broad geographic area and time period. Offered: jointly with GEOG 374/SPAN 325. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 324 JEW ST 325 Contemporary Judaism in a Global Context (5) I&S Pianko Explores the dynamic interactions between contemporary social, political, and intellectual forces and today's changing religious landscape. Critical analysis of the ways n which religious ideologies and communities transform themselves in relationship to geographical contexts and historical processes. Examines Jews and Judaism as a lens for considering changes to religious life. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 325 JEW ST 330 The Sages: Foundations of Classical Judaism (5) I&S M. Ahuvia Investigates the origins and foundation of classical Judaism by the Jewish sages (AKA the rabbis) in the context of the Bible's completion, the Romans' destruction of Jerusalem, and the emergence of Christianity. Discusses the rise of the rabbis, their stories and laws, and their Greco-Roman as well as babylonian-persian context. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 330 JEW ST 336 American Jewish History Since 1885 (5) I&S Political, social, economic, religious history of American Jewish community from great eastern European migration to present. Integration of immigrant community into general American community; rise of nativism; development of American socialism; World War I and II; and reactions of American Jews to these events. Offered: jointly with HSTAA 336. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 336 JEW ST 337 The Holocaust and American Life (5) I&S, DIV In most accounts, "the Holocaust" is told as a European story, but it was also transatlantic. Incorporates film, literature, journalism, social scientific writing, diaries, court cases, and other primary sources to examine how events in Europe affected and were affected by developments in United States history. Offered: jointly with HSTAA 337. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 337 JEW ST 339 Bioethics: Secular and Jewish Perspectives (3) I&S, DIV Hadar Khazzam-Horovitz Legal, ethical, scientific, and Jewish religious perspectives on contemporary medical and biomedical research practices. Legal and civil rights of women, people with disabilities, minors and minority or marginalized groups. Key differences between secular and Biblical/Rabbinic approaches in interpretation, analysis and application of bioethics, doctor-patient relationships; reproductive methods; abortion; euthanasia; and stem cell research. Offered: jointly with B H 339/NEAR E 328. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 339 JEW ST 357 Jewish American Literature and Culture (5) VLPA, DIV Butwin Examines the literary and cultural production of American Jews from the colonial period to the present time. Considers ways in which American Jews assimilate and resist assimilation while Jewish writers, filmmakers, playwrights, and graphic novelists imitate and alter American life and literature. Offered: jointly with ENGL 357; AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 357 JEW ST 358 Jewish Thought (5) I&S N. PIANKO Explores the historical context of major shifts in modern Jewish thought. Topics include the impact of the Enlightenment, Emancipation, the Holocaust, and the founding of the State of Israel on conceptions of Jewish theology, identity, and religious practice. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 368; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 358 JEW ST 359 Jewish American Literature and Culture (5) I&S/VLPA Literature, film, graphic novels, and other cultural artifacts that pertain to experiences of Jews in the United States in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. How questions of immigration, assimilation, identity, religious expression, gender, sexuality, race, intergenerational trauma, and memory have been and continue to be represented by American Jewish writers, comedians, filmmakers, and other culture-makers. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 359 JEW ST 360 Jews, Greeks, and Romans in the Ancient World (5) VLPA Stroup Examines the interactions between populations of Jews, Greeks, and Romans in the ancient Mediterranean from the late Bronze Age through the early Talmudic period, informed by perspectives from literature (religious and secular), art, and archaeology. Offered: jointly with CLAS 360. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 360 JEW ST 362 Food and Community: Cultural Practices in the Hispanic World (5) I&S, DIV Ana M. Gomez-Bravo Intersections of food and community in Hispanic cultures. Past and present practices. Food and material culture, urban design, foodways and gender roles, food and race, diet and hygiene, religious, and civic celebrations, and food preparation techniques. Offered: jointly with GEOG 373/SPAN 362; S. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 362 JEW ST 367 Medieval Jewish History (5) I&S Social and intellectual history of the Jews in western Europe to the fifteenth century. Jews under Islam and Christianity; the church and the Jews; the Crusades and their legacy; intellectual achievements; conflict and cooperation. Offered: jointly with HSTAM 367. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 367 JEW ST 368 Modern European Jewish History (5) I&S, DIV Surveys European Jewish history from the Spanish expulsion (1492) to World War I (1914). Considers diversity of European Jewryies and the factors that cohered them. Examines how European Jewries ordered their lives, shaped gender and class norms, and interacted with the societies in which they lived. Offered: jointly with HSTEU 368. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 368 JEW ST 369 The Jewish Twentieth Century in Film (5) I&S/VLPA, DIV Stein Surveys twentieth-century Jewish history in its European, American, and Middle Eastern contexts by examining films produced in these settings. Considers central events that shaped modern Jewish culture: the changing geography of Europe and the Middle East, mass migrations, the Holocaust, shifting meanings of race, culture, and religion. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 369. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 369 JEW ST 377 The American Jewish Community (5) I&S, DIV Examines how American Jews adapt to a changing world. Explores impact of diverse immigration, acculturation, social mobility, social justice movements, and changing relations between Jews and non-Jews. Encompasses concerns that all communities have adapting to change, when they are also agents of change. Offered: jointly with SOC 377. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 377 JEW ST 378 Contemporary Jewish American Identities (5) I&S, DIV Introduction to the debates about post-Holocaust Jewish identities in multicultural America. Explores whether a distinctive Jewish community is headed toward assimilation, experiencing revival, or merely transforming the multiple ways Jewish experience is lived. Topics include new Jewish immigrants, the new Orthodox, Black Jews, Jewish feminism, children of Holocaust survivors. Offered: jointly with SOC 378. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 378 JEW ST 379 Doing Jewish Identity Studies (5) I&S Friedman Involves the student in researching the diverse Jewish identities of young people today. Includes background reading on Jewish identities in the United States; interviewing young Jewish adults; transcribing and interpreting interviews; and crafting a qualitative research paper. Covers research skills, as well as sensitivity to Jewish community values and concerns. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 379 JEW ST 399 Study Abroad - Jewish Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 399 JEW ST 418 Jewish Philosophy (5) I&S M. ROSENTHAL Introduces the central concepts and themes of Jewish philosophy. Focuses either on debates within a particular historical period - e.g., medieval or modern; or on a topic - e.g., reactions to the Enlightenment or to the Holocaust. Offered: jointly with PHIL 418. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 418 JEW ST 427 Russian Jewish Experience (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV A. Senderovich Examines the experience of Russian Jews from the late 19th century to the present through fiction, films, memoirs, graphic novels set during the Bolshevik Revolution, Stalinism, the Holocaust, the Cold War, the post-Soviet era. Explores issues of identity, gender, class, place of Jews as individuals and as a minority within Russian & Soviet society, as well as Jewish-Russian emigration to USA, Israel and elsewhere at the turn of the 21st century. Offered: jointly with RUSS 427; A. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 427 JEW ST 438 Jewish Women in Contemporary America (5) I&S, DIV Friedman Examines how Jewish women's identities are socially constructed and transformed in contemporary America, using social histories, memoirs, and ethnographies to analyze scholars' approaches to Jewish women's lives. Topics include the role of social class, religion, migration, the Holocaust, and race relations in Jewish women's lives. Offered: jointly with GWSS 438. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 438 JEW ST 459 History of Jewish-Muslim Relations (5) I&S, DIV Topics include Jews' and Muslims' linked encounters with empire, westernization, and nationalism; Jewish culture and identity in Islamic contexts migration and diasporic identities; the impact of Zionism, European Jewish settlement in Palestine, and the State of Israel on Jewish-Muslim relations in the Middle East and beyond; Islamophobia and antisemitism. Offered: jointly with HSTAFM 459. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 459 JEW ST 460 Sephardic Culture before 1492 (5) VLPA/I&S Ana M. Gomez-Bravo Explores Sephardic art. Music, food, film, literature, citizenship and nationhood, identity, and the origins of ladino, among other topics. Taught in English. Offered: jointly with SPAN 460; W. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 460 JEW ST 462 Anti-Semitism As a Cultural System (5) I&S, DIV Comparative study of various anti-Semitic cultural systems from ancient to modern times. Topics include how anti-Semitism can be defined as a cultural phenomenon; the conditions that explain the circulation of anti-Semitic traditions in a given society; the conditions under which social conflict with Jews becomes anti-Semitism. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 462 JEW ST 463 Enlightenment, Emancipation, Antisemitism: History of the Jews, 1770-1914 (5) I&S, DIV The Jewish experience in the modern world from the European Enlightenment to the First World War. Focus on the debates surrounding Jewish emancipation, the reception of Jews within European society, modern antisemitism, nationalist movements, mass migration, and war. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 463 JEW ST 465 The Jews of Eastern Europe (5) I&S Jewish society in Poland, Russia, the Hapsburg Lands, and Romania from the late Middle Ages to the Holocaust. Offered: jointly with HSTEU 465. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 465 JEW ST 466 The Sephardic Diaspora: 1492-Present (5) I&S, DIV Examines the history and culture of Sephardic Jewry from the expulsion from the Iberian Peninsula in 1492 to the present. Explores the creation of Sephardic communities in the Dutch and Ottoman Empires, Western Europe, the Americas, and Africa, and the history of the conversos and "hidden Jews." Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 469. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 466 JEW ST 468 The Jews in Spanish History (5) I&S Sephardic Jews in Spanish politics, economy, and culture, emphasizing the medieval Golden Age and the Inquisition. Offered: jointly with HSTEU 464. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 468 JEW ST 490 Advanced Topics in Jewish Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S Content varies. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 490 JEW ST 491 Seminar: Topics and Issues in Judaism (5) I&S Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 491 JEW ST 495 Seminar in Jewish Studies (5) I&S History of Jewish Studies as an organized field of academic inquiry. Explores the implications for Jewish Studies of its present setting within the context of the humanities and the social sciences. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 495 JEW ST 530 The Sages: Foundations of Classical Judaism (5) M. Ahuvia Investigates the origins and foundation of classical Judaism by the Jewish sages (AKA the rabbis) in the context of the Bible's completion, the Romans' destruction of Jerusalem, and the emergence of Christianity. Discusses the rise of the rabbis, their stories and laws, and their Greco-Roman as well as babylonian-persian context. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 530 JEW ST 539 Bioethics: Secular and Jewish Perspectives (5) H. Khazzam-Horovitz Explores legal, ethical, scientific, and Biblical-Rabbinic & contemporary religious perspectives on contemporary medical and biomedical research practices. Review of key differences between secular and Jewish approaches in interpretation, analysis and application of bioethics. The topics include: doctor-patient relationships; reproductive methods; abortion; euthanasia; and stem cell research. Offered: jointly with B H 539. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 539 JEW ST 558 Jewish Thought (5) N. PIANKO Explores the historical context of major shifts in modern Jewish thought. Topics include the impact of the Enlightenment, Emancipation, the Holocaust, and the founding of the State of Israel on conceptions of Jewish theology, identity, and religious practice. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 568; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 558 JEW ST 559 History of Jewish-Muslim Relations (5) Topics include Jews' and Muslims' linked encounters with empire, westernization, and nationalism; Jewish culture and identity in Islamic contexts migration and diasporic identities; the impact of Zionism, European Jewish settlement in Palestine, and the State of Israel on Jewish-Muslim relations in the Middle East and beyond; Islamophobia and antisemitism. Offered: jointly with HSTAFM 559. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 559 JEW ST 569 The Sephardic Diaspora: 1492-Present (5) Devin E Naar Examines the history and culture of Sephardic Jewry from the expulsion from the Iberian Peninsula in 1492 to the present. Explores the creation of Sephardic communities in the Dutch and Ottoman Empires, Western Europe, the Americas, and Africa, and the history of the conversos and "hidden Jews." Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 569. View course details in MyPlan: JEW ST 569 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022