Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × For a student with diabetes, research is power Posted on April 30, 2020 By College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS) Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download HD video SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X [MUSIC PLAYING] KAAVIAN SHARIATI: This is real. The work that I'm doing here can have actual implications for other people's lives as well as my own. I was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes very shortly before beginning my undergraduate studies at Cornell. Something that seemed to initially be a total burden for me morphed into a new opportunity. Upon my diagnosis, I was exposed to a field that was completely foreign to me previously. Also, with that, I learned about the state of diabetes care and some of its rather harsh realities. There's this lag between engineering and innovation and medicine and patient care. I've become fascinated with this notion of physician engineers or physician scientists, people with these strong technical backgrounds that pursue careers in medicine, someone that has the capacity to take what they learn in the clinic and take their observations about what their patients are dealing with and what feedback they get from their patients and convert that into something that's tangible, that actually makes a difference. In Dr. Minglin Ma's laboratory we focus on the use of biomaterials in, mostly, cell therapies and the interactions between biomaterials and cells. And in the past few years, we have developed this sub-focus on the diabetes sector and specifically targeting type 1 diabetes. Through the laboratory here and through the College of Engineering I was able to get access to impactful and high profile research, and I didn't have to wait until after graduation to be involved in work that was meaningful and impactful. I was able to pick up these different skill sets, whether that was working in bioinstrumentation or tissue engineering or more hard-line engineering, like working with circuits for the purpose of knowing how to apply those understandings to the problems that I was seeing. And I'm eager to use those skills in the medical field. You are encouraged from the start to venture outside of your academic bubble and major to pursue something that doesn't become defined by a simple narrative. You're encouraged to live a complex academic life while you're here and beyond. I was able to take these engineering course works and look at them from this medical point of view and trying to keep the engineering in mind and also address diabetes in the laboratory here. The mere presence of these opportunities at Cornell is what allows one to venture outside of what might be their most traditional path to a path that is actually more well-informed and unique and resourceful. [MUSIC PLAYING] Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. Kaavian Shariati ’20, a biomedical engineering major, speaks about his undergraduate research experience in the lab of Minglin Ma, associate professor in the Department of Biological and Environmental Engineering in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. More About undergraduate research engineering biomedical engineering diabetes class of 2020 What to watch next 22:32 MyPlaylist Global Health's Anti-Politics - honors thesis presentation by Dalton Price '20 1:58 MyPlaylist New study proves efficacy of arthritis treatment 1:00:08 MyPlaylist Ray Johnson: Technology and Engineering Strategy surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×