Skip to main content Search for people, departments & websites Submit keywords Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Main navigation expanded Admissions Academics Research Campus Life About News You are here: Home Research Research Columbia has a long and distinguished history in the discovery of knowledge. We work to foster the continuation of those creative endeavors and to promote an environment that sustains the highest standards of scholarship, learning, and safety. Support Research at Columbia money icon $1+ BILLION In Annual Research line-chart icon 350 New Inventions Annually trophy icon 84 Nobel Laureates bank icon Over 200 Research Centers and Institutes "Research pushes the boundary between what we know and don’t know. It’s the cornerstone of any great university: to seek, create, and disseminate new knowledge." Jeannette Wing, Executive Vice President of Research Jeannette Wing, Executive Vice President of Research at Columbia University Research at Columbia Irving Medical Center includes the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, the College of Dental Medicine, the School of Nursing, and the Mailman School of Public Health. Zuckerman Institute brings together researchers from across the University to study the brain, gaining insights that promise to benefit people and societies everywhere. Data Science Institute dedicated to advancing state-of-the-art artificial intelligence, and its application in all fields, and ensuring responsible use of data to benefit society. Columbia Climate School provides the scholarship needed to tackle climate change and its related challenges through transdisciplinary research and partnerships. Columbia World Projects is home to the Obama Foundation Scholars, which uses Columbia research to tackle global challenges and positively affect people’s lives. Quantum Initiative brings quantum technology out of the lab and makes it available for massive adoption in information science, health, sensing, and metrology. Free Speech Initiative deals with litigation, research, and education. It includes Knight First Amendment Institute, Global Freedom of Expression, and other centers. Columbia Science Initiative partners across Columbia to commit our world-class resources to urgent, global challenges in climate, health, and innovation. The Power of Research Columbia and United Negro College Fund Will Link HBCUs to CUIMC Columbia to Launch $25 Million AI-based Climate Modeling Center Mailman School of Public Health to Lead Pandemic Response Institute University Research Administration The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research has overall responsibility for the University's research enterprise. Clinical Trials Environmental Health and Safety Human Research Protection and IRBs Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance and Training Research Initiatives Sponsored Projects Administration Research and Discovery News Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close