Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Life at UC Set Navigation title in component Student Experiences Essential Resources Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Life at UC Are you ready for your new life at the University of Cincinnati? Your study abroad experience can change your entire life—but only if you make the most of it! Many students say they grew in ways they never imagined while studying abroad. It's an exciting but sometimes overwhelming experience. Learning how to navigate your new life and knowing the people who can help you will give you confidence to take advantage of the opportunity. Whether you are on campus or studying online from your home country, you've come a long way. So learn some new skills. Explore your new possibilities. Meet new friends and mentors you'll keep for the rest of your life. This chapter of my life would be titled the 'training arc' as I feel I'm gaining skill that will help me later in life. Sarah Saadeh Political Science + International Affairs UC International can help UC International can connect you to all the assistance you need for your life at UC, whether you're setting up your bank account and choosing housing, getting used to American academics, finding your way around your new hometown or looking for new friends. These pages offer practical resources to help you plan, cultural information to help you adjust and social connections to help you settle in. We want you to succeed at UC, so please don't hesitate to contact us if you need more help. Email UC International Find UC International The Graduate School If you are a graduate student, the Graduate School is another important resource for you in addition to UC International and your college. Their resource pages centralize links on many useful subjects like housing options and renter resources, academic and administrative offices, professional development and career resources, important deadlines for grad students and many more general student support services. Explore Resources Contact the Graduate School UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top