Skip to content Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Main Menu About A Brief Introduction | Engineering Study Abroad Milestone Events Student Life Annual Safety Security Report Academics Courses Academic Calendars Current GT Students Transient Students Graduate Programs MS Analytics MS Computer Science MS Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Environmental Engineering Master of Industrial Design Exchange To GT-Atlanta MS Analytics MS CS MS ECE MS ENVE Master of Industrial Design To GT-Shenzhen To GT-Lorraine Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Financial Scholarships Coulter Scholarships Merit-Based Scholarships NACA Scholarships Tuition and Fees Industry FAQ FAQ on Admission FAQ on Financial Matters FAQ on Programmatic Issues FAQ on GT MS Degree FAQ on PhD Ugrad Summer Contact Us Search Search for: Search Tuition and Fees Tuition and Fees Tuition and fees are due from degree-seeking students at the beginning of each semester and are collected in Shenzhen. A number of scholarships are available. Tuition and fees are quoted in the Chinese currency RMB. You can visit this page to obtain the exchange rate between RMB and the currency of your interest. As of 1/1/2021, the exchange rate between USD and RMB is approximately 1 USD = 6.53 RMB. The GT-Shenzhen tuition and fees rate is currently 45,000 RMB per semester and covers up to 12 credit hours. Normally, it takes a student 3 semesters to complete a GT MS degree. If a student chooses to spend the last semester at GT-Atlanta or GT-Lorraine, he/she will need to pay the tuition and fees directly to that campus. Tuition and fees payment details will be sent to enrolled students prior to the beginning of each semester. Financial Scholarships Coulter Scholarships Merit-Based Scholarships NACA Scholarships Tuition and Fees Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology