Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Division Departments & Areas Strategic Plan Leadership About Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President Student Well-Being Well-Being Resources Healthy 'Cane Network 'Canes Care for 'Canes COVID-19 Resources Resources COVID-19 Resources Student Resources Staff Resources Graduate Assistantships 'Canes Care for 'Canes Report a Concern News Give About Us Student Well-Being Resources 'Canes Care for 'Canes News Give Search Meet Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President About Us About the Division Departments & Areas Strategic Plan Leadership About Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President Student Well-Being Well-Being Resources Healthy 'Cane Network 'Canes Care for 'Canes COVID-19 Resources Resources COVID-19 Resources Student Resources Staff Resources Graduate Assistantships 'Canes Care for 'Canes Report a Concern News Give Meet Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President About Us Resources Leadership Staff Support News Give Home Meet Dr. Whitely AAA Meet Dr. Whitely Meet Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President Welcome to the Division of Student Affairs! We are a dynamic, fast-paced division that engages to make a difference for all Hurricanes. Much of your student experience happens beyond the classroom. So take a step out of your comfort zone and meet someone, learn something, and do something new. It is our differences that bring us together and help us develop. Each of our innovative programs, facilities, and services supports a campus culture of leadership, service, learning, and community. As an educator, I can attest that student involvement and overall success are connected. Students who are involved on campus, beyond the classroom, get more out of their college experience. Make the most of your college experience. Join a student organization. Explore Greek Life. Volunteer through the Butler Center. Attend an athletic game - you can even find me at them! There are so many wonderful opportunities on our campus, but you have to take the step to become involved. At the University of Miami, ’Canes care for ’Canes. We are all a part of the UM community and support one another. Don’t be afraid to reach out to a fellow student, faculty, or staff member. Please, feel free to contact me at 305-284-4922 or vpsa@miami.edu if you have any questions or just looking to connect. It’s great to be a Miami Hurricane! Dr. Patricia A. Whitely Senior Vice President for Student Affairs Biography of Dr. Whitely Dr. Patricia A. Whitely began her service as the Senior Vice President for Student Affairs at the University of Miami (UM) in 1997. She leads 21 departments and areas that directly provide programs, services, and facilities that better the present and future Miami Hurricane experience. Dr. Whitely has both a passion and skill for crisis management, higher education policy, and leadership. She has provided much needed compassion, guidance, and expertise for our students, their families, and the entire Hurricane community. An endowed fund dedicated solely to supporting those in crisis was established and honored with her namesake. An impactful member of the UM community since 1982, she previously served as the Director of Student Life and various progressive positions within residence halls. Dr. Whitely is known for her willingness to mentor and provide guidance to students and staff alike. She hosts a four-week long senior reflection seminar for undergraduates, which was based on a capstone class that she participated in with her undergraduate mentor. Dr. Whitely connects her professional practice to theory for future higher education leaders as an adjunct faculty member for the Department of Educational and Psychological Studies in the School of Education. NASPA, the leading national organization for higher education administrators, elected her as Board Chair in 2014. Dr. Whitely also led the NASPA SERVE Academy, which connects mid-to-senior professionals with leadership curricula and a professional mentor. She engages as a frequent presenter for NASPA annual and topical conferences, including the Alice Manicur Symposium for women aspiring to becoming a vice president for student affairs. She also serves on the National Catholic Campus Ministry Association and currently serves on the Executive Board. Dr. Whitely has been honored numerous times for her work by both the University of Miami community and her colleagues. UM Student Government honored her by naming a new award – Patricia A. Whitely Unsung Hero Award - which recognizes an individual whose work to positively impact the community may go unnoticed. Faculty Senate awarded her with the 2017 James W. McLamore Outstanding Service and Leadership Award, which recognizes service above and beyond the call of duty. Dr. Whitely has been recognized nationally by ACPA as a Diamond Honoree in 2002, and by NASPA with the Pillar of the Profession in 2009, the Region III 2012 John Jones Award for Outstanding Performance, the 2013 Scott Goodnight Award for Outstanding Performance as a Senior Student Affairs Officer, and the Fred Turner Award for Outstanding Contributions to Student Affairs in 2020. Dr. Whitely received her doctoral degree in Higher Education Leadership from the University of Miami, her master’s degree in Student Personnel Services from the University of South Carolina, and her bachelor’s degree in Business Management and Theology from St. John’s University (NY). University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Division of Student Affairs 1252 Memorial Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4922 305-284-4922 vpsa@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices