Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Brown Technology Innovations- Staff OUR TEAM Neil Veloso Executive Director (401) 863-1585 | Email | Linkedin Neil Veloso is the most senior officer in the University focused on commercializing Brown innovations through new venture creation, industry collaborations and licensing with strategic partners. Neil has spent two decades at the intersection of academic research, healthcare and commercialization. As a consultant and advisor, he worked with leading academic medical centers and institutions, private and public universities, and investors. Neil has held senior roles in commercialization as the Executive Director of technology transfer at Johns Hopkins University and a Senior Director at Cleveland Clinic Innovations. He has transactional experience in the fields of therapeutics, information technology, engineering and diagnostics with both established companies and venture-backed startups. Contact Neil if you are interested in partnering with industry to explore commercial pathways for your research. Karen Bulock, PhD Managing Director, Brown Biomedical Innovations-To-Impact Fund (401) 863-5460 | Email Karen Bulock has over twenty years of experience in discovery, preclinical, and early stage clinical project management. Prior to coming to Brown in August 2018, she served as Vice President of Research at RXi Pharmaceuticals Corporation and as Associate Director of Research at Galena Biopharma, Inc. Karen has a PhD in Pharmacology from Yale University. Contact Karen for information about BBII awards to fund biomedical translational research projects and for support with translational research and commercialization of biomedical technologies. Brian Demers, '85 Director of Business Development- School of Engineering and Physics (401) 863-5435 | Email | Linkedin Brian Demers is an executive leader with proven results in developing and managing new business and technology ventures. Early in his career, Brian co-founded and was Vice President of Engineering at ViaDSP. After the company was acquired by NMS Communications, Brian stayed on in various roles including VP & General Manager of the Mobile Application business unit (subsequently spun out as Livewire Mobile). A Brown alum, Brian joined Brown Technology Innovations in 2012. Contact Brian for support with commercial venturing inquiries regarding engineering and physics. Len Katzman, JD Director of Business Development- Data and Computer Science (401) 863-9896 | Email As an attorney and business development professional, Len Katzman fosters strategic collaborations with industry through licensing, sponsored research, and launching new ventures. Prior to joining Brown in 2007, Len was a business attorney concentrating on intellectual property law, technology transactions, business contract negotiations, corporate governance and business counsel. Len’s work is informed by a 15-year career in private industry as a software engineer and computer systems development professional in businesses ranging from startups to Fortune 100 companies. Len has a B.S. in Computer Science from the University of Rhode Island and a J.D., cum laude, from Rogers Williams University School of Law. Contact Len for support with commercial venturing inquiries regarding data and computing science or questions about intellectual property. Melissa J. Simon, PhD Director of Business Development- Life Sciences (401) 863-2497 | Email Melissa has over fifteen years of experience in pharmaceutical and biotechnology research, development, and commercialization. Prior to joining Brown, Melissa served as the VP of Life Sciences Business Development for RI Commerce, responsible for strategically growing Rhode Island’s life science ecosystem. Before moving to Rhode Island, she was a Senior Director with Insight Strategy Advisors (now dba Precision Advisors), a life science strategy consulting firm focused on pharmaceutical market access, pricing, and reimbursement. Melissa holds a BS in bioengineering from the University of Pennsylvania and a PhD in biomedical engineering from Columbia University. Contact Melissa if you are interested in commercial venturing or partnering with industry on opportunities in the life sciences. Andrew Bond, PhD Senior Director of Business Development- Life Sciences (401) 863-6005 | Email Andrew Bond has over twenty years of experience in biotechnology, genomics, and computational biology research and product strategy. Prior to joining Brown, Andrew served in executive roles at Universal Sequencing Technology, 1CellBio, Gen9, and PrimeraDx. Along the way, Andrew has been instrumental in the building of six life science startups (three of which were acquired) and led the pivot of a computational biology startup (Xpogen) into a quantitative hedge fund. Andrew has a PhD in Molecular Genetics from University of Massachusetts Medical School. Contact Andrew if you are interested in commercial venturing or partnering with industry on opportunities in the life sciences. Jennifer L. Vieira Assistant Director, Operations (401) 863-9239 | Email A graduate of Rhode Island College, Jenn Vieira has been an Intellectual Property Paralegal for over 10 years. Prior to joining Brown, she worked as the Senior Intellectual Property Paralegal for MIT’s tech transfer office. Her “in the trenches” experience includes managing the administrative aspects of patent prosecution, maintaining data integrity of the patent management database and supporting the work of licensing officers with patent portfolio management in order to ensure the appropriate protection of intellectual property assets. Contact Jenn with any questions related to submitting an invention disclosure, application status and department billing. Stephany Foster Science Communicator (401) 863-7499 | Email Stephany Foster creates communications materials about faculty researchers to share with potential industry collaborators, and performs research on market opportunities for faculty interested in exploring commercial pathways. Stephany has experience writing about reproductive biology and genetic testing for Recombine (now CooperGenomics). Having completed her undergraduate degree at Brown in 2014, Stephany is currently pursuing a PhD in Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry with Dr. Gary Wessel at the Providence Institute of Molecular Oogenesis (PRIMO lab). Madison Fitts Student Contract Assistant A senior at Brown University, Madison studies Business, Entrepreneurship, and Organizations. Madison's entrepreneurial experience includes building an environmentally sustainable tea bar located in East Greenwich, RI. She is a member of the Women's Empowerment team on the Brown Entrepreneurship Program. Her interest includes innovation, skiing, modern dance, and fostering dogs. After college, she intends to work in an environmentally sustainable start-up. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Our Team Brown Biomedical Innovations to Impact (BBII) Brown Technology Innovations Advisory Board For Faculty and Inventors News from Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat