Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Science in Electrical Engineering (MSEE) Pioneer New Technologies From Large Energy Systems to Small Electrical Components Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Electrical & Computer Engr 2 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Design Electrical Devices and Systems for Technological Innovation The Master of Science in Electrical Engineering provides you with a broad background in areas such as electromagnetics and optics, signal processing and systems, and micro- and nano-systems. Through your studies, you’ll learn to develop and disseminate the theory and methods for the design, analysis and implementation of the principles and practices in electrical engineering. And while electrical engineering is one of the oldest disciplines in engineering, it has considerably evolved over the years. In this program, you’ll be able to contribute to the advancement of the profession specializing in a research area of their interest, from power electronics to cyber-physical systems to computer systems and VLSI. Upon graduation, you’ll be prepared to pursue advanced studies or establish successful employment within industry, government, education and a number of other areas. Many graduates also take part in professional societies, participate in training opportunities and go on to obtain professional licensure and certification in the field. Electrical Engineering MSEE, Accelerated BS to MSEE Track The accelerated undergraduate/graduate program in Electrical Engineering allows highly qualified undergraduate majors in Electrical Engineering to begin taking graduate-level courses that will count toward their master’s degree while completing their baccalaureate degree program. Request Information Highlights UCF’s electrical engineering graduate program ranked No. 58 in the nation according to U.S. News & World Report. Our electrical engineering master’s program at UCF has a long and respected history since its start in 1971. Job growth for electrical engineers is expected to exceed 14 percent over the next decade. Electrical engineering graduates earn an annual average salary of $100K nationwide. Application Deadlines Fall July 1 Spring December 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Numerical Techniques in Electromagnetics Learn about the applications of finite difference methods (FDTD), finite element method and integral equation method (method of moments) to electromagnetics. Biomedical Nanotechnology Gain an understanding of human physiology, bioelectric phenomena and neurons, nanoelectronics for fabrication of biochips for human biomedical applications, self-assembly, bioelectronics, moral and ethical issues. Digital Signal Processing Applications Explore the design and practical consideration for implementing digital signal processing algorithms, including fast fourier transform techniques and some useful applications. View All MS in Electrical Engineering Courses You’ll Take Electrical Engineering Skills You'll Learn Identify, formulate and solve complex electrical engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science and mathematics. Communicate effectively with a range of audiences and collaborate with team members in various departments to establish goals, plan tasks and meet objectives. Acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies in addition to contemporary modeling and simulation tools. Career Opportunities Electrical Engineer Electronics Engineer RF Engineer Optical/Laser Engineer Mobile Applications Developer Engineering Manager Solar Engineer Admission Requirements While a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering or a related discipline is recommended, it is not required. However, if you do not hold a bachelor’s in one of these fields, you’ll need to complete several undergraduate articulation courses prior to admission. A grade of “B” or higher must be obtained in any articulation courses. Applications are accepted for the fall and spring semesters. All required materials must be submitted prior to the application deadline. Please note that faculty members may choose to conduct face-to-face or telephone interviews before accepting an applicant into their research program. Request Information In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: Official transcripts Resume Letters of recommendation Statement of educational, research and professional career objectives Request Information College of Engineering and Computer Science Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals After beating dozens of top teams to earn seventh place, UCF will advance to the World Finals for the 11th consecutive year. Colleges & Campus 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting… Colleges & Campus Elite Students Coming to UCF for North America Collegiate Programming Contest UCF will host and compete against 49 other top student programming teams — including Stanford, MIT, Harvard, Caltech, UCBerkeley and Georgia Tech. Research Aerodynamics of Perching Birds Could Inform Aircraft Design A team of UCF researchers have investigated the mystery behind different bird perching maneuvers to better understand the aerodynamic forces of landing an aircraft. Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Masters Electrical Engineering (MSEE) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Electrical Engineering (MSEE) program offered at UCF. Loading... × Program Prerequisites Undergraduate articulation courses are required to be completed prior to admission for students who do not hold a Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering. In particular, the articulation courses specified below, plus all of the prerequisite string which any of them require, must be completed prior to admission. Grades of "B" or higher must be obtained in each articulation course specified below. Articulation courses are not eligible for inclusion on a graduate Program of Study. EEL 3123C - Network and Systems EEE 3307C - Electronics I EEL 3470 - Electromagnetic Fields EEL 3552 - Signal Analysis and Communications EEE 3350 - Semiconductor Devices I In addition, choose one of the following: EEL 3657 - Linear Control Systems EEE 4309C - Electronics II EEL 4750 - Digital Signal Processing Fundamentals Degree Requirements Elective Courses 24 Total Credits There are no required courses within a specialization area, however, all students (thesis and nonthesis) must choose at least 24 credit hours of formal courses, excluding research-related courses and Independent Study (XXX 6908) that emphasize their specialization area. Courses from outside specialization areas could also be chosen if they are approved by the student's adviser and incorporated into the Program of Study for the student. The Program of Study (POS) form must be approved by an adviser in the selected specialization area no later than the end of the second semester after admission. The program of study must meet all the university requirements specified in the graduate catalog and must also receive departmental-level and college-level approval. Specialization Areas 24 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following The Electrical Engineering Program supports a number of specialization areas. These technical areas are: Electromagnetics and Optics (EO), Signal Processing and Systems (SPS), and Micro-Systems and Nano-Systems (MNS). The Micro-Systems and Nano-Systems area covers the typical Electrical Engineering topic areas of Electronics, Power Electronics and Micro-Electronics, while the Signal Processing and Systems area covers the typical electrical topic areas of communications, controls, and signal processing. For each one of these areas there is a suggested list of courses stated below. Students are also allowed to take courses from other specialization areas, but the majority of their courses should be chosen from courses in their specialization area. Electromagnetics and Optics (EO) Earn at least 24 credits from the following: EEE5542 - Random Processes I (3) EEE5557 - Introduction to Radar Systems (3) EEL5437C - Microwave Engineering (4) EEL5439C - RF and Microwave Active Circuits (4) EEL5462 - Antenna Analysis and Design (3) EEL5432 - Satellite Remote Sensing (3) EEL6425C - RF and Microwave Measurement Techniques (4) EEL6481 - Numerical Techniques in Electromagnetics (3) EEL6482 - Electromagnetic Theory I (3) EEL6489 - Advanced Topics in Electromagnetics and Microwaves (3) EEL6504 - Communications Systems Design (3) EEL6530 - Communication Theory (3) MAP5426 - Special Functions (3) MAP5435 - Advanced Mathematics for Engineers (3) MAP6424 - Transform Methods (3) OSE5041 - Introduction to Wave Optics (3) OSE5414 - Fundamentals of Optoelectronic Devices (3) OSE6111 - Optical Wave Propagation (3) OSE6143 - Fiber Optics Communication System (3) OSE6211 - Imaging and Optical Systems (3) OSE6421 - Integrated Photonics (3) OSE6432 - Guided Waves and Optoelectronics (3) OSE6445 - Fundamentals of Ultrafast Optics (3) OSE6455C - Photonics Laboratory (3) OSE5525 - Laser Engineering (3) OSE6615L - Optoelectronic Device Fabrication Laboratory (3) OSE5525 - Laser Engineering (3) Micro-Systems and Nano-Systems (MNS) Earn at least 24 credits from the following: BME5572 - Biomedical Nanotechnology (3) EEL5245 - Power Electronics (3) EEE5332C - Thin Film Technology (3) EEE5352 - Semiconductor Material and Device Characterization (3) EEE5353 - Semiconductor Device Modeling and Simulation (3) EEE5356C - Fabrication of Solid-State Devices (4) EEE5370 - Operational Amplifiers (3) EEE5378 - CMOS Analog and Digital Circuit Design (3) EEE5390C - Full-Custom VLSI Design (3) EEE5555 - Surface Acoustic Wave Devices and Systems (3) EEE6317 - Power Semiconductor Devices and Integrated Circuits (3) EEE6358 - Advanced Semiconductor Device I (3) EEL6246 - Power Electronics II (3) EEE6326C - MEMS Fabrication Laboratory (3) EEE6338 - Advanced Topics in Microelectronics (3) Signal Processing and Systems (SPS) Earn at least 24 credits from the following: EEE5513 - Digital Signal Processing Applications (3) EEE5542 - Random Processes I (3) EEE5557 - Introduction to Radar Systems (3) EEE6504 - Adaptive Digital Signal Processing (3) EEL5820 - Image Processing (3) EEL5825 - Pattern Recognition and Learning from Big Data (3) EEL5630 - Digital Control Systems (3) EEL5173 - Linear Systems Theory (3) EEL6504 - Communications Systems Design (3) EEL6530 - Communication Theory (3) EEL6590 - Advanced Topics in Communications (3) EEL6812 - Introduction to Neural Networks (3) EEL6619 - Nonlinear Robust Control and Applications (3) EEL6621 - Nonlinear Control Systems (3) EEL6662 - Advanced Robotics (3) EEL6667 - Mobile Robotic Systems (3) EEL6671 - Modern and Optimal Control Systems (3) EEL6674 - Optimal Estimation for Control (3) EEL6616 - Adaptive Control (3) EEL6683 - Cooperative Control of Networked Autonomous Systems (3) EEL5669 - Introduction to Robotics and Autonomous Vehicles (3) EEL6026 - Optimization of Engineering Systems (3) CAP5415 - Computer Vision (3) CAP6411 - Computer Vision Systems (3) CAP6412 - Advanced Computer Vision (3) CAP6419 - 3D Computer Vision (3) Thesis/Nonthesis Option 6 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following Thesis Option Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: EEL 6971 - Thesis The thesis option requires 6 credit hours of thesis work (EEL 6971) in addition to the 24 credit hours of formal elective courses. Please note the following requirements for this option: - 24 credit hours of courses must be taken in the student's chosen specialization area. - No more than 6 credits of thesis (EEL 6971) will be counted toward the degree requirement. - At least half of the coursework, including Thesis XXX 6971, must be at the 6000-level (typically at least 15 credit hours). - Thesis students who are full time must continue to enroll in three credit hours of thesis coursework each semester until the thesis requirement is satisfied, beyond the minimum of 6 credit hours of thesis, but only 6 hours total will count toward the degree requirement. The College of Engineering and Computer Science requires that all thesis defense announcements are approved by the student's adviser and posted on the college's website and on the university-wide Events Calendar at the College of Graduate Studies website at least two weeks before the defense date. Nonthesis Option Complete all of the following Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: Additional Elective Coursework. The nonthesis option is especially suited for part-time students. Nonthesis students must complete 6 credit hours of electives in addition to the 24 credit hours of formal coursework described above. If approved by the student's adviser, the student may include a total of 6 credit hours as an Independent Study (XXX 6908). At least half of the coursework must be at the 6000-level (typically at least 15 credit hours). Students are required to complete a culminating experience. The culminating experience for nonthesis MS students is submission of their portfolio of activities by the course withdrawal date of the semester prior to their intended graduation. Portfolio requirements are listed on the EECS website at http://www.eecs.ucf.edu/. Grand Total Credits: 30 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. A bachelor's degree in Electrical Engineering or a related discipline. GRE is not required for MSEE applicants with a BS degree in EE or CpE and with a minor in any of following disciplines of EE, CpE or CS. Two letters of recommendation. Résumé. Statement of educational, research, and professional career objectives. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. Faculty members may choose to conduct face-to-face or telephone interviews before accepting an applicant into their research program. Additional courses may also be required to correct any course deficiencies. Students should contact the graduate program director for further information. Application Deadlines Electrical Engineering MSEE *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jul 1 Dec 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 Jul 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida