COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: International Business, Minor MinorInternational Business All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Management A minor in international business from Wichita State's AACSB-accredited Barton School of Business will enhance your perspective in business and culture—giving you useful knowledge and skills for diverse careers in an increasingly global marketplace. The minor is a good addition to any business major or non-business major with an international focus. Learn how international business is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application As part of the Barton International Group (B.I.G.), WSU business students have the opportunity to travel abroad to research business trends and practices. Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the Barton School of Business, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program International business student interns at U.S. Open International business major and tennis player Jocelyn Devilliers got the chance to work side-by-side with some of the world's greatest players as part of a summer internship with the U.S. Open. His experience at WSU prepared him to interact with different cultures as he managed the fitness center and locker room during the international event. Curriculum The 15-credit-hour minor is available to business students and non-business majors. To start the minor, you'll need to 12 credit hours of basic business prerequisites. The minor includes: International Economics and Business International Management International Marketing International Financial Management View the curriculum Careers An international business degree from Wichita State will prepare you for high-paying careers with multinational companies, banks, joint venture operations, import-export firms, trading companies, federal government and state trade agencies and more. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs International Business Management Marketing 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©