Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH EPIDEMIOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 EPI 201 Outbreak Investigation and Response (5) I&S/NW, QSR J. BASEMAN Provides an introduction to infectious disease outbreaks of both domestic and global significance. Students learn about outbreak detection, investigation and response activities and methodologies through a combination of lecture, case studies, homework, and popular media. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 201 EPI 220 Sexually Transmitted Infections: Causes and Consequences (5) I&S/NW, QSR L. MANHART Examines the causes and consequences of sexually transmitted infections (STI). Discusses strategies to prevent STI with a focus on sexual and reproductive health. Explores new advances in STI epidemiology, treatment, and public health control. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 220 EPI 221 Maternal and Child Health-a Population Health Approach (5) NW D. Enquobahrie Provides a public health perspective of maternal and child health. Includes information on indicators of maternal, infant, and child health; risk factors for pregnancy complications, infant and child morbidity and mortality; and impact of maternal and child health on life course disease risk. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 221 EPI 320 Introduction to Epidemiology (4) NW For the undergraduate student wishing to devote only one quarter to a course in epidemiologic methods. Description of ways in which variation in disease occurrence is documented and how that variation is studied to understand causes of disease. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 320 EPI 330 Analyzing Epidemiologic Data: Basic Methods (4) I&S, QSR Application of concepts to real data using basic epidemiologic analysis methods. Prerequisite: EPI 320; and either BIOST 310, QMETH 201, Q SCI 381, STAT 220, STAT 221/CS&SS 221/SOC 211, or STAT 311. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 330 EPI 360 Exploring the HIV/AIDS Pandemic (5) I&S/NW, QSR Connie L. Celum, Adrienne E Shapiro Presents a comprehensive overview of the historical, public health, clinical, and biological aspects of HIV infection. Covers impact of AIDS on community and global health care and prospects for prevention and control. Offered: jointly with G H 360; W. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 360 EPI 410 Computational and Applied Genetic Epidemiology (5) QSR Alison Fohner Advanced topics in genetic epidemiology for undergraduate students, focusing on hands-on introduction to computational analysis of population genetics and individual health data using R programs. Students will investigate how genes and environment interact to cause disease and health-states and to inform public health interventions. Recommended: PHG 301 or prior background in basic genetics and statistics. Offered: jointly with BIOST 401/PHG 401; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 410 EPI 499 Undergraduate Research (*) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 499 EPI 502 Physical Activity in Health and Disease (3) Impact of physical activity on individual and public health. Overview of physiological adaptations to activity, exercise prescription, exercise epidemiology, and prevention of chronic diseases. Public health recommendations for activity in the U.S. population, and the effects of the built environment on activity. Recommended: human physiology. Offered: jointly with NUTR 505. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 502 EPI 505 Preventing Healthcare Associated Infections (1) Multidisciplinary approach to understanding, measuring, and developing policy to prevent healthcare associated infections. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with MED 540. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 505 EPI 506 Surveillance Systems and Decision Making in Public Health (2) This course will introduce students to public health surveillance systems and decision-making based on surveillance data. A range of surveillance system types will be covered (e.g. foodborne illness, newborn screening, lead, emerging infectious diseases). Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 506 EPI 508 Computational and Applied Genetic Epidemiology (5) Alison Fohner Topics in genetic epidemiology and its application in public health practice. Provides hands-on introduction to computational analysis of population genetics and individual health data using R programs. Students investigate how genes and environment interact to cause disease and health-states and to inform public health interventions. Recommended: prior background in basic genetics and statistics. Offered: jointly with PHG 501; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 508 EPI 510 Epidemiologic Data Analysis (3) Jeffrey Stanaway Intended for students planning to take EPI 514. Introduces concepts and programming skills necessary to analyze data sets for case-control and cohort studies. Provides students hands-on experience in using epidemiologic data sets for stratified analyses with Stata and R. Co-requisite: either EPI 511, EPI 512, or PHI 512. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 510 EPI 511 Introduction to Epidemiology (4) Epidemiologic methods for non-epidemiology majors. Focuses on research designs and methods to describe distribution and determinants of disease and health events in populations; uses quantitative and biomedical information to infer whether causal relationships exist between potential causes and disease in populations. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 511 EPI 512 Epidemiologic Methods I (4) Ali Rowhani-Rahbar, Amanda I Phipps Considers principles and methods of epidemiology. Covers measures of disease frequency, descriptive epidemiology, overview of study designs, measures of excess risk, causal inference, screening, measurement error, misclassification, effect modification, and confounding. First in a two course sequence. Prerequisite: BIOST 511, which may be taken concurrently, or equivalent. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 512 EPI 513 Epidemiologic Methods II (4) Amanda I Phipps, Ali Rowhani-Rahbar Considers how epidemiologic studies may be designed to maximize etiologic inference. Covers infectious disease epidemiologic studies, randomized controlled trials, cohort studies, case-control studies, cross-sectional studies, ecological and multilevel studies, and selected topics such as meta-analysis. Second in a two course sequence. Prerequisite: either EPI 512 or PHI 512. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 513 EPI 514 Application of Epidemiologic Methods (5) Alyson Littman Hands-on experience analyzing data to answer a specific research question. Each student works in a group on a separate project. Groups use data from the Behavioral Risk Factors Surveillance System, a national, state-based survey. Students work with a faculty preceptor, as assigned by the instructors. Prerequisite: EPI 513; and either EPI 510 or a passing score on the department's EPI 514 statistical programming screening examination. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 514 EPI 515 Advanced Epidemiologic Methods I (3) Steve Mooney First in a series of 2 courses. Increases knowledge of epidemiological principles by introducing methodological approaches to handling common problems in epidemiologic research that extend beyond the scope of traditional methods. Prerequisite: EPI 512 and EPI 513 Offered: jointly with BIOST 519. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 515 EPI 516 Advanced Epidemiologic Methods II (4) Brandon L Guthrie Second of a series of 2 courses whose objective is to deepen students' knowledge of epidemiological principles by introducing methodological approaches to handling common problems in epidemiologic research that extend beyond the scope of traditional methods. Prerequisite: EPI 515. Offered: jointly with BIOST 520. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 516 EPI 517 Genetic Epidemiology (3) Sara Lindstroem Research methods for evaluating genetic influences on disease and risk factors and for assessing genetic-environment interactions. Study designs and statistical methods that are covered include twin studies, family-based studies, genome-wide association studies, rare variant association studies and Mendelian randomization studies. Prerequisite: either EPI 511 or equivalent; either BIOST 511 or equivalent; and either BIOST 509, experience with R programming language, or experience with other programming software; recommended: either GENOME 371 or equivalent. Offered: jointly with PHG 511; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 517 EPI 519 Research Methods and Current Topics in Cardiovascular Epidemiology (3) N. Smith Overview of epidemiologic research methods applied to current topics in cardiovascular and cardiometabolic health and disease in human populations. Covers pathophysiology; molecular, clinical, behavioral, and social risk factors; burden and disparities across and within populations nationally and globally; and public health interventions. Prerequisite: EPI 511 or EPI 512; BIOST 508, BIOST 511 or BIOST 517; or permission Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 519 EPI 520 Epidemiology of Infectious Diseases (3) Christine M Khosropour Focuses on infectious diseases from a public health perspective. Uses domestic and international case studies to apply traditional and contemporary epidemiologic principles and methods to infectious disease research and public health practice. Specific topics include: surveillance, program evaluation, outbreak investigation, transmission dynamics, and mathematical modeling. Prerequisite: either EPI 511, EPI 512, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 520 EPI 521 Epidemiology of Maternal and Child Health Problems ([3-4]-) D. ENQUOBAHRIE Contributions to understanding and prevention of major maternal and child health problems, including pregnancy outcome, infant and child morbidity and mortality, maternal morbidity and mortality, abnormal child growth and development, and early-life factors in adult health problems. Prerequisite: graduate, medical, or dental school standing and EPI 511 or EPI 512 or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with HSERV 542. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 521 EPI 522 Reproductive Epidemiology (3) Focuses on female reproductive system conditions and diseases, non-birth pregnancy outcomes, and impact of pregnancy on later health. Presentation of current epidemiologic knowledge and discussion of methodologic issues on topics including the menstrual cycle; contraception; infertility; spontaneous and induced abortion; and uterine and ovarian disease. Prerequisite: either EPI 511, both EPI 512 and EPI 513, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 522 EPI 524 Cancer: Epidemiology and Biology (3) M. MADELEINE Explores the epidemiology of major cancers (infection-related, breast, prostate, lung, colon, melanoma), with an emphasis on milestones in cancer mechanisms (such as tumor viruses, cell cycle, DNA repair, and metastasis). Integrates knowledge from different fields of cancer research, with guest lectures from experts in epidemiology and cancer biology. Prerequisite: either EPI 511 or EPI 512; either undergraduate biology coursework or instructor permission. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 524 EPI 527 Vaccines (3) H. Chu Overview of issues in vaccine development, clinical trials, implementation of vaccination programs, and the role of vaccines in the control of infectious diseases. Emphasizes current issues and real-world challenges in the vaccine field and features critical reading of the literature. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 527 EPI 529 Emerging Infections of International Public Health Importance (3-) Focuses on the nexus between emerging infections and increasing globalization of the world due to the mobility of people and goods. Examines emergent events through risk factors and associated macro changes implicated in their genesis. Reviews microbial evolutionary strategies and factors of emergence. Prerequisite: graduate standing. Offered: jointly with HSERV 536. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 529 EPI 530 AIDS: A Multidisciplinary Approach (2) Carey Farquhar Comprehensive overview of the public health, clinical, and laboratory aspects of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and disease. Topics include the pathogenesis, natural history, and management of HIV infections; the impact of HIV/AIDS on community and global healthcare; and prospects for prevention and control. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with G H 562/MED 530. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 530 EPI 531 Statistical Methods for Analysis with Missing Data (3) Covers statistical methods for the analysis of missing data, including likelihood-based, weighted GEE, multiple imputation, and Bayesian approaches. Uses computational tools such as EM algorithm and Gibbs' sampler. Covers both ignorable and non-ignorable missing-data mechanisms as well as cross-sectional and longitudinal study designs. Primarily uses data arising from epidemiologic studies. Offered: jointly with BIOST 531. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 531 EPI 532 Epidemiology of Infectious Diseases in Resource-Limited Countries (3) A review of major infectious disease problems of the developing world, including AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, measles, and diarrhea, with an emphasis on public health control strategies. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 532 EPI 533 Pharmacoepidemiology (3) Overview of pharmacoepidemiology including drug development and approval; application of epidemiologic methods to study drug safety and effectiveness; exploration of the interplay between research and public policy; introduction to resources for information about drugs; introduction to pharmacology principles pertinent to pharmacoepidemiology. Prerequisite: Health Sciences graduate student; either EPI 511 or both EPI 512 and EPI 513. Offered: jointly with HEOR 520. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 533 EPI 535 Statistical Methods in Genetic Epidemiology (3) Theory and application of statistical techniques used in genetic epidemiology. Includes discussion of association studies, linkages and segregation analyses. Examples stressed with reference to assumptions and limitations. Prerequisite: either BIOST 513 or BIOST 518; PHG 511/EPI 517; or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with BIOST 516/PHG 519. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 535 EPI 536 Categorical Data Analysis in Epidemiology (4) Summary of univariate categorical data analysis; introduction to multivariate analysis of categorical epidemiologic and health sciences data using multiplicative models. Experience at interpretation; familiarity with available software programs gained by analysis of bona fide data and critiques of published analyses appearing in literature. Prerequisite: BIOST 515; EPI 513 and either BIOST 513 or BIOST 518; or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with BIOST 536; A. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 536 EPI 537 Survival Data Analysis in Epidemiology (4) Introduction to multivariate analysis of survival data using multiplicative models. Application to epidemiologic and health sciences studies. Familiarity with interpretation and available software computer programs gained by analysis of bona fide sets of data and critiques of published analyses appearing in the literature. Prerequisite: BIOST 536 or EPI 536. Offered: jointly with BIOST 537; W. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 537 EPI 538 Nutritional Epidemiology (3) Application of epidemiological methods to studies of diet, nutrition, and chronic disease. A discussion of current issues and controversies enables students to design studies and read the literature in nutritional epidemiology. Prerequisite: EPI 511 or EPI 512 or instructor permission. Offered: jointly with NUTR 538. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 538 EPI 540 Bayesian Biostatistics (3) Introduction to Bayesian methods for data analysis; Bayesian reasoning, prior elicitation, inference and decision making, and computation applied to biomedical research. Prerequisite: any course in statistics at the 400-level or higher or instructor's permission. Offered: jointly with BIOST 526/HEOR 550; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 540 EPI 541 Introduction to Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis of Evidence (3) Conceptual understanding of the quantitative methods used to synthesize evidence. Methods for pooling evidence across independent studies, pooling binary/continuous outcomes, differences between fixed and random effects models, and guidelines for appraising published systematic reviews/meta-analyses. Prerequisite: either introductory level courses in statistics, epidemiology, or biostatistics or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with BIME 541/HSERV 529/PHARM 529. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 541 EPI 542 Clinical Epidemiology (2) Weiss Principles and methods involved in studying the outcome of illness. Prerequisite: EPI 511, or EPI 512 and EPI 513. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 542 EPI 546 Psychiatric Epidemiology (3) I. Rhew, A. Vander Stoep Using epidemiological methods to study mental illness. Topics include contributions of mental illness to global disease burden; major population-based studies of mental illness; measurement of psychopathology; culture and mental illness; role of neurodevelopment, genetics, social and physical environment in etiology of mental disorders; mental health services research. Prerequisite: either EPI 511, EPI 512, HSERV 591, or permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with PBSCI 546. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 546 EPI 547 Social Determinants of Population Health and Health Disparities (3) Explores the elements and actions of a population health approach, including conceptualizing the determinants of health, synthesizing knowledge about major social determinants, and applying knowledge to improve population health and reduce health disparities. Enrollment priority for Health Services PhD students. Prerequisite: HSERV 511, permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with HSERV 514. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 547 EPI 548 Research Methods for Social and Contextual Determinants of Health (3) A. Hajat Explores study-design, measurement, analytic, and interpretation issues applicable to research on social and contextual determinants of health and health disparities. This lecture/seminar course is offered to graduate students with knowledge of epidemiologic and biostatistical principles who are interested in understanding complex relationships between social/contextual factors and health. Prerequisite: EPI 511 or EPI 512/513; and BIOST 511/512/513 or BIOST 517/518. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with HSERV 548; W. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 548 EPI 549 HIV/STI Prevention Research Methods (3) R. Heffron, A. Roxby Focuses on current research and implementation of HIV/STI prevention including biomedical, behavioral, and public health interventions. Includes analyzing strength of research evidence to support novel interviews, understanding key features of study design, and applying interventions that are most appropriate and feasible for specific settings and populations. Offered: jointly with G H 563. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 549 EPI 553 Advanced Methods for Global Health II (4) Presents applications of the cluster-randomized trial design to estimate the impact of interventions for a global health and implementation science audience. Covers trial design and implementation, reviews methods commonly used for analysis. Assumes prior knowledge of generalized linear models and modern methods to analyze correlated data, including generalized estimating equations (GEE) and random-effects models. Prerequisite: either BIOST 540, CS&SS 560/SOC 560/STAT 560, or permission of instructor; recommended: EPI 512 and EPI 513. Offered: jointly with BIOST 528/G H 536/HMS 536; W. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 553 EPI 554 Introduction to Epidemic Modeling for Infectious Diseases (3) R. BARNABAS Covers the basic tools for building and analyzing mathematical models of infectious disease epidemics. Model types include deterministic and stochastic models, compartmental and individual-based models. Laboratory provides hands-on model building experience in Excel, Stella, and R. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 554 EPI 555 Statistical Methods for Spatial Epidemiology (3) Motivates the need for, and describes methods for the analysis of spatially indexed epidemiological data. Covers four major topics: clustering and cluster detection, disease mapping, spatial regression, and an introduction to geographical information systems. Considers both point-references and spatially aggregated data. Offered: jointly with BIOST 555/G H 534. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 555 EPI 556 Advanced Methods for Global Health III (4) Brad Wagenaar Focuses on applying advanced non-randomized methods to quantitatively evaluate global health implementation science questions, including a specific focus on applying difference-in-differences, interrupted time-series, and regression discontinuity designs. Assumes prior knowledge of generalized linear models and modern methods to analyze correlated data, including generalized estimating equations (GEE) and random-effects models. Prerequisite: either BIOST 540, CS&SS 560/SOC 560/STAT 560, or permission of instructor; recommended: EPI 512 and EPI 513. Offered: jointly with BIOST 525/G H 537/HMS 537; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 556 EPI 560 Data Management for Public Health (3) Steve Mooney Introduces principles and practice of data management for public health. Provides hands-on experience with key skills for data management in public health research and practice, including identifying and linking data sources, using and querying relational databases, understanding ethical issues raised by modern data management, and visualizing data. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 560 EPI 570 Occupational and Environmental Epidemiology (3) Research in occupational and environmental determinants of disease. Defining exposed populations, characterizing exposure levels, estimating disease risks relative to exposure. Cohort, case-control, cross-sectional designs for various health outcomes. Applications to exposure standard setting and risk assessment. Prerequisite: EPI 511 or EPI 512, EPI 513 or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with ENV H 570. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 570 EPI 571 Neuroepidemiology and Environmental Risk Factors (3) Walter A Kukull Focuses on neurologic diseases and etiology. Presentation of descriptive epidemiology, clinical features, and risk factors, including stroke, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, and other disorders. Discussion of NIH grantsmanship. Guest experts present some topics. Psychiatric disorders e.g. schizophrenia, autism spectrum disorders, and depression will not be discussed. Offered: jointly with ENV H 571. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 571 EPI 573 Methods and Issues in Using Biological Measurements in Epidemiologic Research (3) Schwartz Introduction to use of measurements from biological specimens in epidemiologic studies. Prepares epidemiology and laboratory science students for conduct of interdisciplinary human studies. Evaluation of biomarkers, preliminary studies, methodologic issues, quality control. Brief review of molecular biology. Applications and current literature discussed. Prerequisite: EPI 511 or EPI 512. Offered: jointly with ENV H 573. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 573 EPI 575 Anti-Racism and Equity: An Epidemiologic Approach (1) Explores the role of epidemiology in promoting and hampering anti-racism and equity across public health and beyond. Focuses on foundational knowledge and theory related to race, racism and anti-racism. Presents methodological approaches that move toward anti-racism and health equity. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 575 EPI 582 Design and Analytic Strategies to Enhance the Validity of Epidemiologic Studies (2) Weiss Discusses the issues that led to specific methodologic developments during the past 30 years, along with a characterization of these developments and the consequences of their application. Prerequisite: EPI 512 Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 582 EPI 583 Epidemiology Seminar (1, max. 12) Presentation of current epidemiologic research and application of epidemiologic research in the practice of public health. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 583 EPI 584 Doctoral Dissertation Seminar (1, max. 2) A. FITZPATRICK, N. WEISS Forum for Epidemiology doctoral students to obtain information for doctoral research, including: project ideas; forming a committee; developing a proposal; conducting the project; and presenting results. Prerequisite: EPI 512 and EPI 513, admission to the PhD program, successful completion of the preliminary examination, or second-year status. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 584 EPI 585 Injury and Violence: A Public Health Approach (3) Focuses on broad concepts including a conceptual model, surveillance, research methods, control and prevention of injuries. Topics include unintentional injuries from motor vehicle crashes, falls, drowning, sports injuries and intentional injuries from youth violence, intimate partner violence, homicide and suicide. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 585 EPI 586 Responsible Conduct of Research: Global and Local (3) Alison Drake, Carey Farquhar Prepares international and U.S. students to develop research proposals; conduct international and domestic field research; and present scholarly work. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with G H 532; A. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 586 EPI 588 Preparing, Writing, and Critiquing Scientific Research Proposals (2-3) A. FITZPATRICK, L. KESSLER Experience in preparing, organizing, and writing research proposals, following NIH and AHRQ guidelines. Includes weekly assignments and didactic exercises, leading to final research proposal. All students participate in mock study section to review and critique proposals. Prerequisite: second-year graduate student (PhD recommended), or PhD or MD in health-related field. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with HSERV 578. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 588 EPI 590 Selected Topics in Epidemiology or International Health (1-6, max. 6) Tutorials arranged for a small number of students for in-depth examination of an area of epidemiology or international health, usually of current nature. Seminar format. Prerequisite: EPI 511. Also a special summer format presenting introductory material. May be offered with ENV H 590 and/or HSERV 590. For more information and permission, consult department program adviser. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 590 EPI 591 Current Literature in Epidemiology (1, max. 15) Articles pertaining to epidemiology and related subjects selected from the current literature to be distributed and read by all participants. Faculty members and enrolled students alternate being responsible for conducting sessions and choosing articles to read. Prerequisite: EPI 513. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 591 EPI 592 Program Seminars (1-6, max. 16) Graduate seminars organized to address specific educational needs of students in various specialized programs within the Department of Epidemiology (i.e., Maternal and Child Health). Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 592 EPI 593 Cancer Prevention Research Laboratory (3, max. 24) Research experience for pre- and post-doctoral students working on cancer prevention projects at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 593 EPI 594 Field Epidemiology: Student Epidemic Action Leaders Team (1-2, max. 8) J. BASEMAN Introduces applied epidemiology in public health practice, specifically in areas of outbreak investigation, public health preparedness and response. Includes fieldwork opportunities. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 594 EPI 595 Epidemiology Master's Practicum (1-6, max. 6) Supervised practice experience providing students an opportunity to learn how epidemiology is applied in a public health setting and in the formulation and application of public health policy. Prerequisite: EPI 512 and BIOST 511 or equivalent and permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 595 EPI 599 Capstone Project (1-10, max. 25) Supervised capstone experience providing students with an opportunity to apply epidemiology in an applied public health setting and to produce professional-quality deliverables as well as a written summary. Prerequisite: permission of faculty capstone project supervisor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 599 EPI 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Prerequisite: permission of independent study supervisor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 600 EPI 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Prerequisite: permission of thesis chair. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 700 EPI 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Prerequisite: permission of dissertation chair. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EPI 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022