Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information Menu Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information HUSKY FOR LIFE The alumni community is blooming! Explore what UWAA members make possible for students and our community. JOIN NOW! Learn more Home Alumni UWAA Members UWAA Members Close Menu Home UWAA Members Reasons to be a member Choose a membership option Member benefits ConGRADulations, Class of 2022 Get the app UW Impact Member account Request a replacement member card We love our members! 60,000 Huskies strong, UWAA members share a passion for the purple and gold. We believe in the value of higher education and the impact that the University of Washington makes on our world. We believe in our community and we support our students. If you are a UWAA member, thank you! Discover the latest opportunities and benefits that are available to you at the bottom of this page. Not a member? Join the pack! As UWAA members, we: Support Huskies of all ages through career-minded programs like UW Husky Landing and Huskies@Work Create opportunities for students through scholarships and grants to campus student groups. Amplify our voices in support of UW and higher education through UW Impact. Explore more reasons to be a member UWAA members also receive: Invitations to members-only experiences Discounts and special offers with more than 60 UW-affiliated merchants and organizations Early access and “purple carpet” treatment at select UWAA community events UW Magazine, UW’s award-winning quarterly print publication Special surprises throughout the year! If you have passion for the purple and gold, you belong with us. join the pack Current operations Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, If you join or renew online, please allow up to five business days for your membership to become active, and up to 2 weeks to receive your membership packets and cards. Thank you for being a UWAA member! Interested in becoming a Member Benefits partner? UWAA is always on the look-out for partners with a strong UW connection and Northwest sensibility. Complete this form to be considered. Join UWAA Renew Home UWAA Members Reasons to be a member Choose a membership option Member benefits ConGRADulations, Class of 2022 Get the app UW Impact Member account Request a replacement member card New Benefit Member Benefit Tacoma Rainiers Members get Group Express or Group Double Pay tickets to select games Link Member Event UWAA Member Shopping Night at University Book Store Wed. May 25, 2022 Discover an expanded collection of Husky gear—at a great discount! Link Get Together Summer Sports with the UWAA Save on tickets, sit with your fellow Huskies and support UWAA student scholarships! Link online benefit Online Journal Access (EBSCO) Members get online access to EBSCO database of academic journals and magazines Link New Benefit Member Benefit Down the Ave UWAA members get 20% off their order from Down the Ave Link UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA