Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Network Accessibility Network right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow About us Accessibility Commitment and Policy EIT Accessibility Plan FAQ's Accessibility 101 right arrow down arrow Accessibility Definitions Documents right arrow down arrow Microsoft Excel Accessibility right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint right arrow down arrow Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Websites right arrow down arrow Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Video & Media right arrow down arrow Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Ordering Professional Captions YouTube Studio Captioning Checklist Purchasing right arrow down arrow Procurement Policy Accessibility Review VPAT Software and Applications Checklist Canvas right arrow down arrow Ally for Canvas Course Syllabus Create an Accessible Canvas Course Checklist Training right arrow down arrow Digital Inclusion Day right arrow down arrow Call for Proposals Schedule of Events Registration Accessibility Compliance Training right arrow down arrow Request Enrollment - Accessibility Compliance Training Home » About UC » Electronic Accessibility » Documents » Microsoft PowerPoint Set Navigation title in component Microsoft Excel Accessibility Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint Checklist Tutorials Accessible Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations Microsoft Power Point provides a built-in accessibility checker that will identify accessibility errors, warnings and tips to make your document more accessible. In addition, this feature offers “how to” instructions to fix accessibility issues. Use the Office 365 accessibility checker Microsoft Power Point has excellent resources with in-depth instructions for incorporating accessibly best practices into documents. Article on accessibly best practices in Power Point documents Video series on accessibility best practices in Power Point documents Guidelines for Creating Accessible Microsoft Power Point Presentations Below are some additional guidelines for creating accessible Power Point presentations. Use the slide templates provided in Power Point Layout. The templates create an appropriate heading and reading structure for a person using a screen reader to easily navigate your slides. Do not add text boxes to slides. A screen reader cannot navigate to read the text inside the box. Create a companion document if you put necessary information in the Notes section of a presentation. A screen reader cannot navigate to the notes section of Power Point. Alternative Text Best Practices Alternative text, or “alt text” describes the content of images, graphs and charts. It should be added to every image that conveys meaning in a Power Point Presentation. Below is a list of best practices for using alternative text in image heavy presentations. Write a short and concise description of no longer than 150 characters. Do not use the filename, “photo,” or “image” to describe an image. Indicate the purpose of complex images like charts, graphs and infographics. Write “decorative” in the alternative text if the image does not add additional meaning to the presentation. Identify the required action for images that contain a link (i.e., click the image to go to another web page). University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top