Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Public Health Law Research Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Public Health Law Research Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Public Health Law Research Certificate (Graduate) Accreditation Admissions Information Required Courses Public Health Law Research Graduate Certificate The Public Health Law Research Graduate Certificate, housed jointly in Temple’s College of Public Health and the Beasley School of Law, focuses on the emerging field of legal epidemiology—also known as public health law research—which is the scientific study of the effects of laws and legal practices on health. This field of research generates evidence that can inform policy initiatives to advance health and well-being. It examines everything from the impact of laws and regulations on healthcare to more incidental effects of laws that impact health broadly, like housing, education and employment laws or economic and civil rights policies. This transdisciplinary certificate provides fundamental training in public health law and legal epidemiology research methods, such as policy surveillance, which is the systematic, scientific collection and analysis of significant public health policies. The field of public health law research generates evidence that can inform policy initiatives in order to advance health and well-being. The certificate is offered in association with the Center for Public Health Law Research—founded in 2009 at Temple—which has built a theoretical foundation for the field, developed innovative research methods for policy evaluation, and is working on translational research in order to use evidence in improving public health practice. As a student in the public health law certificate program, you will learn to conceptualize and design a public health law study, conduct a legal epidemiology study, evaluating the impacts of laws or policies under the mentorship of a graduate faculty member during an independent research project, demonstrate the integration of behavioral and organizational theory with a law or policy, describe the mechanism behind a law or policy, develop policy surveillance techniques for collecting and coding laws, learn to conduct statistical analysis, and systematically evaluate laws and policies on an individual level. The admissions process you'll follow depends on if you are applying as a matriculated or nonmatriculated graduate student. Please be sure to carefully review the admissions information for this certificate program. What sets apart our Public Health Law Research Certificate? A unique, interdisciplinary program: Temple’s Center for Public Health Law Research is a pioneer in the field of legal epidemiology, and the certificate is the only one of its kind in the nation. Designed for public health practitioners, researchers and advocates: The certificate advances the goals of current graduate students in various disciplines, including criminologists, historians, lawyers, public health practitioners, sociologists and others who value health, well-being and equity. Nationally renowned faculty: Courses are taught by nationally recognized faculty in Temple’s College of Public Health and Beasley School of Law, who not only conduct innovative research on policies and laws across a broad spectrum of issues but are also founders and champions of the field. Program Format The 12-credit, four-course certificate program is available either as an independent program or as a supplement to your primary graduate degree at Temple University. You can complete the certificate on a part-time basis through a combination of online and in-person classes, finishing in two years or less. See a full list of program courses. Related Graduate Degrees in the College of Public Health MPH in Health Policy and Management PhD in Health Policy and Health Services Research MPH in Epidemiology MPH in Environmental Health MPH in Social and Behavioral Sciences MPH in Applied Biostatistics PhD in Social and Behavioral Health Sciences PhD in Epidemiology Related Areas of Study in the Beasley School of Law Public interest and social justice Healthcare law Legal research and writing Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. HP-PHLR-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Public Health Law Research Certificate (Graduate) Accreditation Admissions Information Required Courses Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info