By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Campus Highlights Hendricks More from this Section Performing Arts Student Centers Student-Run Media Connective Corridor The Stadium Hendricks Chapel As the heart of Syracuse University, Hendricks Chapel leads in service to our common good as a student-centered global home for religious, spiritual, moral and ethical life. Hendricks Chapel opened its doors to the University community in September of 1930. Since that time, the University has changed from a relatively small, Methodist-affiliated academy to the large, diverse, multi-faith University it is today. With a focus on belonging and education of the whole person, Hendricks Chapel remains fully committed to religious and spiritual expression and serves as a center of activity for all members of the Syracuse University campus community. Learn More About the Chapel Religious Groups Hendricks Chapel is home to all student religious and spiritual groups on campus. These groups span a wide variety of religious traditions and spiritual interests, and are open to all students. While each group serves a particular faith constituency, all work together as part of S.A.I.L. (Student Assembly of Interfaith Leaders) on issues of interfaith engagement, student welfare, and spiritual programming. For more information, visit the lower level of Hendricks Chapel or visit chapel.syracuse.edu. Programs Matters that Matter: A Conversation Series from Hendricks Chapel Music and Message People's Place Café (Located in Hendricks Chapel’s Lower Level) Community Service Opportunities with the Office of Engagement Programs Student Opportunity Fund and Support Services Food Pantry Hendricks Chapel Choir Black Celestial Choral Ensemble Holidays at Hendricks “Grab a Warm Drink” Follow @oursyracuseu on Instagram for a look at Syracuse University through the eyes of our students. One of my favorite places to grab a warm drink before class is People's Place. My favorite drink on the menu is the Austin Powers, which is half coffee and half hot chocolate. I love this drink because I'm not a huge coffee fan. If you've never been to People's Place, I recommend trying it out! —Jessica Engs The Food Pantry The Food Pantry serves all students from Syracuse University and the State University of New York College of Environmental Science and Forestry (ESF) at no cost. You may request food should you need it, or refer other students. To donate food, bring non-perishable or perishable items to the Dean's Office. Featured Stories A Mindful Approach to Healing As the spiritual heart of campus, Hendricks Chapel creates spaces where students can experience the power of presence. Exploring Heritage and Tradition Through Music in Ghana Samuel Kuffuor-Afriyie discovered a musical language that spoke to him when he received a grant to compose new organ pieces honoring his family’s native country. Related Pages Weddings at Hendricks Consider Hendricks Chapel as the location for your wedding ceremony. We welcome couples of all sexualities and gender identities to be married in Hendricks Chapel. People’s Place People’s Place, located in the basement of Hendricks Chapel, is an independent, student-run, non-profit coffee shop. Music at Hendricks Hendricks Chapel hosts a variety of musical groups as a way to explore spirituality and the world through the arts. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy