Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College | Columbia Engineering | School of General Studies Undergraduate International Travel Policy Undergraduate Travel Resources Undergraduate International Travel Policy This policy is required of the undergraduate students of Columbia College, the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science, and School of General Studies, as well as any undergraduate or graduate students taking part in programming run, funded or facilitated by Undergraduate Student Life, Global Programs and Fellowship and/or the Columbia University Center for Career Education. The policy’s goal is to focus on better supporting the health, safety and security of our undergraduates while they pursue transformative, meaningful and engaging educational experiences beyond the classroom. Columbia University International Travel Planning Policy This University policy establishes a set of guidelines and requirements for planning international travel. This policy covers international Columbia Travel, which includes Columbia-Led Travel and Columbia-Facilitated and/or Recognized Travel, as defined within the policy's text. It does not cover Non-Columbia Travel. All students covered by the Undergraduate International Travel Policy are also subject to compliance with the Columbia University International Travel Planning Policy. Columbia University Global Travel Review current travel risks, alerts and warnings for the region you are traveling to, register your itinerary with the University’s ISOS travel registry system, and stay connected with Columbia’s emergency response team. Emergencies Call ISOS +1-215-942-8478 for help. Columbia's membership number is 11BSGC000064 Health Insurance Your health insurance policy must provide coverage outside the U.S. for routine, urgent, and emergency care. The purchase of traveler’s insurance is also strongly recommended. Plan Before You Go Columbia travelers need to take an active role in addressing administrative, health and safety concerns inherent to international travel. If you are planning a trip abroad, recognize that certain regions require special considerations due to political, cultural, legal or health-related reasons. Your careful review and consideration of the current state of the host country to be visited is an essential element of international work. Student Checklist for Global Travel Home About the Policy Full Policy Who is Covered COVID-19 Travel Requirements FAQs Undergraduate Travel Resources Faculty and Staff Undergraduate Travel Web App Need Program Approval? If you are a Columbia faculty or staff member and have an opportunity, program or excursion that is recognized or supported by Columbia and involves international travel, please see our Travel Programs page. Questions? Have a question? Email utrc@columbia.edu. © 2022 Columbia University | Privacy | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination |University Home Page