COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Music Education - Instrumental Conducting, Master's Master'sMusic Education - Instrumental Conducting All Programs College of Fine Arts School of Music Wichita State's Master of Music Education (MME) program will help you take your musical talent to a higher level while gaining the knowledge and skills needed for a rewarding career as a music educator. You'll learn from faculty with extensive classroom experience—and take advantage of applied learning opportunities in Kansas' largest school district. Learn how Music Education - Instrumental Conducting is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission requires the completion of a Bachelor of Music Education (BME) degree, or equivalent, from an accredited institution. Students holding bachelor's degrees in music other than the BME must satisfy public school certification requirements to qualify for full admission. Applicants without such certification are admitted on a conditional basis pending their attainment of public school teaching credentials. For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum The program offers several options: coral and elementary music, instrumental conducting, instrumental music (with recital option), music in special education, and voice. MME programs range from 32-36 credit hours. View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU's extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©