Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Menu Search TTU Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion A dynamic mix of people, cultures, backgrounds, nationalities, ideas, and ways of seeing the world is the foundation of our commitment to equity and inclusion at Texas Tech University. Our students come from diverse socioeconomic, cultural, religious, global, political, and academic backgrounds. From first-generation college students to students from more than 100 different countries across the globe, we create opportunities for you to find your community as a Red Raider. Ultimately, it's our goal that the interactions and discussions that happen here may be the most important lessons you will learn as you go through this journey. Be Bold. Take the first step. Your future awaits you. Be Fearless. Explore new possibilities. Be You. Make your mark and leave your legacy at Texas Tech University. Sign up to join these programs! AVID First Year Experience The Office of Academic Enrichment (OAE) provides guidance, support, and enhances students' first year college experience through the AVID Student Success course curriculum, academic support, and resources. The mission of OAE is to aid students in identifying barriers and needs, while increasing their academic engagement and social interactions through college readiness initiatives and professional preparation. Enroll in IS 1102 at orientation and discover more! Learn more. The Lauro Cavazos & Ophelia Powell-Malone Mentoring Program (Mentor Tech) Enhance your experience at TTU through a faculty or staff mentor relationship. Mentor Tech enhances the quality of the education experience through a mentor/protégé relationship to assist students with going through the educational journey and career exploration. Learn more. Follow us on Facebook, Instagram & Twitter for back to school events! McNair Explorers & Scholars Program The McNair Explorers Program is a year-long exploratory program for first-year and sophomore students to introduce them to undergraduate research and graduate school resources, while also preparing them for applying to the McNair Scholars Program and other undergraduate research programs and opportunities at Texas Tech. Explorers participate in workshops and seminars to prepare historically underrepresented students for exploration of graduate school possibilities and a basic understanding of research, so that they can be competitive applicants for the McNair Scholars Program and other undergraduate research programs on and off campus. Learn more. Follow us on Facebook & Instagram for back to school events! First Generation Transition & Mentoring Programs (FGTMP) First Generation College Students are students who neither parent(s) or guardian(s) attained a bachelor's degree from a university within the United States. First Generation Transition & Mentoring Programs is dedicated to increasing the retention and graduation rates of first-generation students. FGTMP utilizes Peer Coaches to focus on the academic and social transition of first-generation college students at Texas Tech University. Learn more. Follow us on Instagram & Twitter for back to school events! TRIO Student Support Services TRIO Student Support Services (SSS) is designed to increase persistence and graduation rates through services and resources. TRIO SSS provides academic advising, tutoring, financial literacy development, graduate school and career preparation, and exposure to cultural activities. Students who are first-generation, demonstrate a financial need, or are registered with TTU Student Disability Services are eligible to apply for the program here. Follow us on Facebook, Instagram & Twitter for back to school events! Learn how to engage with these programs! Black Cultural Center The Black Cultural Center provides an educationally immersive experience and sanctuary space to celebrate, honor, and engage across the multiple and diverse intersections of the African and Black diaspora. On a mission to empower and cultivate futures of tomorrow, the Center enriches the Red Raider community through fostering academic enrichment, elevating research, leadership development, community engagement, co-curricular experiences, signature events, and the experience of cultural arts. Learn more. Office of LGBTQIA Education and Engagement The Office serves the Texas Tech community through facilitation and leadership of programming and advocacy efforts. These initiatives are aimed at strengthening the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex, and asexual (LGBTQIA) community, as well as serving as a resource for the ally community. Together, this work sustains an inclusive campus that welcomes people of all sexual orientations, gender identities, and gender expressions. Find out more. Follow us on Facebook, Instagram & Twitter for back to school events! Student Intersectional Leadership Council (SILC) The Student Intersectional Leadership Council provides leadership opportunities focusing on intersectionality, interpersonal, and intercultural leadership development. SILC builds inclusive communities of students through education, advocacy, social justice, heritage celebrations, cultural competence, and global engagement. Students lead the university in organizing and celebrating cultural and heritage programs, events, weeks and months that create the diverse community at Texas Tech. Get involved and be a part of positive change. Learn more. Follow us on Instagram & Twitter for back to school events! TTU Chess Program The Chess Program brings outstanding students from all over the world to Texas Tech University. Competing at all division levels, the program provides opportunities for all ratings from International Grandmasters to club players in addition to offering scholarships at both the undergraduate and graduate level. Learn more. Follow us on Facebook, Instagram & Twitter for back to school events! Through the Division of Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion, Texas Tech University offers a variety of student support services, student leadership opportunities, heritage & cultural celebrations, peer education and transition & mentoring experiences for you to learn, engage and build your network of support. Now is the perfect time for you to explore these unique opportunities! Start your exploration with our website units above. Check our social media for information on upcoming Welcome Week Events! We can't wait to see you this fall! Wreck ‘Em, Jade Silva Tovar, M.Ed. Assistant Vice President Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Like Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on FacebookLike Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Facebook Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitterFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitter Subscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTubeSubscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTube Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on InstagramFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Instagram Address P.O. Box 5024 Lubbock, Texas, 79409-5024; Admin Building, Suite 233 Phone 806-742-7025 Email diversity@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 18, 2022 2:09 PM Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About Back About the Division Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About About the Division Back Meet our Team Faculty & Staff College Students Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About College Students Back You Belong Here Contact Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About Contact Back Contact Us Report A Bias Incident Divisional Units & Committees Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back Programs & Services Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back AVID First Year Experience Mentor Tech Military & Veterans Programs First Generation Transition & Mentoring Programs (FGTMP) TTU Chess Program McNair Scholars Program TRIO - Student Support Services University Interscholastic League Raider Education Department (RED) The Student Intersectional Leadership Council (SILC) Women & Gender Studies Centers and Offices Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back Black Cultural Center College Connect Dream Resource Center Office of Institutional Diversity Office of LGBTQIA Committees Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Divisional Units & Committees Back President's Council on Diversity & Equity RAISE Committee (formerly Hispanic Serving Institution) Alumni Community Heritage & Culture Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Heritage Months Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Hispanic Heritage Month Fall Pride Week Indigenous People's Heritage Month International Education Week Black History Month Women’s HERstory Month Asian, Pacific Islander, Desi, & Arab Heritage Month MLK Celebration 2022 Diversity Week Culture Celebrations Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back El Grito Juneteenth African American Lecture Series Latino Hispanic Lecture Series Graduation Celebrations and Convocations Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Black Convocation Hispanic Convocation Asian, Pacific Islander, Desi & Arab (APIDA) Convocation Lavender Graduation MVP Stole & Recognition Ceremony Hispanic Serving Institution Week Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Heritage & Culture Back Hispanic Serving Institution Week Resources Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Resources & Publications Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Camps Support – COVID-19 Student Affairs COVID-19 Resources Inclusive Election Support Resources DACA Resources Publications & Reports The National Registry of Diverse & Strategic Faculty Inclusive Language Terminology Funding Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Scholarships Multicultural Student Scholarships Awards Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back Accolades and Recognition Spotlighting Award Winners Celebrate Diversity Awards Banquet Diversity & Equity Awards Students Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Resources Back K-12 Academic Areas of Inclusion Raiders Rojos Family Support-COVID-19 News & Events Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News & Events Back News Events Calendar Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News & Events Events Calendar Back TTU Men of Color Initiative - "The Chat" Culture Fest 2020 Black Women in The Academy Discussion & Recognition Celebrate Diversity Awards Banquet 2020 Spring Faculty Search Committee Workshop Women's History Month - Juju Chang Hispanic Serving Institution Week Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index