Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ Perkins School of Theology External Programs and Centers Webinars & Hybrid Events Webinars & Hybrid Events Upcoming Webinars Upcoming Hybrid Events In-Depth Enneagram Series August 26, 2021, 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. Social Styles: People & Conflict September 30, 2021, 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Thinking, Feeling, Doing Church October 23, 2021, 9:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Enneagram & Relationships Join conflict resolution specialist and enneagram teacher and facilitator, Lisa Hancock for a brief series of classes offered between August and October. These three hybrid events will facilitate in-depth exploration of stances, triads, and relationships through the lens of the enneagram. Knowing your enneagram number would be beneficial. Attend one or all three. Special pricing for groups of 5 is available. Register Today! These workshops are graciously supported by the Certificate in Spiritual Direction Program, the Johannaber Lecture Endowment, and the Howard Holbert Endowment. Past Webinars: Deep Dive Word Study with Jack Levison Thursday, September 9, 2021 12:00 p.m. Who knew that a word study could read like an adventure story? Embark on a journey of discovery with Jack Levison, W. J. A. Power Professor of Old Testament Interpretation and Biblical Hebrew at Perkins and author of A Boundless God: The Spirit According to the Old Testament. This webinar will offer you tools and insight that will provide a word study experience like no other. Learn the Greek and Hebrew meanings for keywords and phrases in the Bible which often have deeper, richer meaning in their original contexts during this hour-long webinar. Inspiration In Isolation with Jack Levison April 1, 2020 Webinar April 8, 2020 Webinar April 15, 2020 Webinar Crisis Counseling in Youth Ministry with Terry Parsons April 15, 2020 Webinar Designing Digital Spaces for Youth Ministry with Victoria Sun Esparza April 23, 2020 Webinar Youth Leadership for a Quarantine Season with Sam Halverson April 30, 2020 Webinar Organizing Your Ministry in the Midst of Chaos with Michelle Moore May 6, 2020 Webinar Creative Teaching Principles for Whatever Comes Next with Bart Patton May 14, 2020 Webinar Restarting Youth Ministry with Renewed Purpose with Shanterra McBride "Restarting Youth Ministry with Renewed Purpose," with Shanterra McBride June 4, 2020 Recording coming soon! External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Fall Convocation 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Us An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share