Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality & Resort Management Hospitality Culinary Sport & Leisure Apply Students Careers Research News & Events Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Careers KWS Career Fair 2022 Hospitality and Resort Management Careers Success Stories Current Opportunities Sport and Leisure Management CareersInternshipsSuccess Stories Employers Events Take Action Apply to the KWS Program Academic Advising Career Advising Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality & Resort Management Careers Careers Hospitality Careers The hospitality industry offers exciting careers in all aspects of travel industry such as, lodging, restaurants, cruise lines, travel agencies, public and private clubs, and vacation ownership; just to name a few. The major facts about the travel industry are: The Travel & Travel and Tourism industry's contribution to world GDP grew for the fifth consecutive year in 2014, rising to a total of 9.8% of world GDP (US$7.6 trillion) according to the latest report from The World Travel and Tourism Council's (WTTC). The Travel & Tourism industry now supports nearly 277 million people in employment – that's 1 in 11 jobs on the planet! The Travel & Tourism global expansion in 2015 is forecast to continue at a stronger rate than in 2014 and is forecast over the next ten years to grow at a better rate of 3.8% annually. In the U.S., the total contribution of Travel & Tourism to employment was 13,652,500 jobs in 2014 (9.3% of total employment). This is forecast to rise by 1.7% in 2015 to 13,885,000 jobs (9.3% of total employment). By 2025, Travel & Tourism in the U.S. is forecast to support 17,157,000 jobs (10.6% of total employment), an increase of 2.1% per year. With formal education in the hospitality field and an intense desire to give exemplary customer service, many people can find rewarding management careers in the industry. Industry certification in areas such as revenue management, customer service and food and alcohol service help establish core knowledge required by the industry and is built into our curriculum as part of the courses. A detailed description of the competencies required for the Hospitality Industry can be found at the following link: http://www.careeronestop.org/CompetencyModel/competency-models/hospitality.aspx For a listing of current hospitality positions please follow any of the links below: http://www.hcareers.com/cjb/ahla http://www.hospitalityonline.com/ http://www.indeed.com/q-Hospitality-jobs.html http://www.hcareers.com/search-jobs/?bi=*&Search=hotel+jobs&LocationText=&Radius=25&type=partner&source=PS_Adwords http://www.careerbuilder.com/jobs/keyword/hospitality-hotel Lodging The lodging industry includes hotels and resorts of various types and is one of the largest employers in the hospitality industry. In the U.S., this robust segment of the hospitality industry accounts for over $180 billion in sales annually and over seven million jobs. There are many routes one can take within the lodging industry including guest services, front office, housekeeping, human resource, and sales & marketing. Some position titles many include, Bed and Breakfast Innkeeper, Director of Front Office, Front Desk Manager, Front Office Manager, Hotel Manager, Night Manager, Resort Manager, Rooms Director, Resident Manager, and General Manager. The size and type of lodging may determine how much experience and education is needed to obtain a management position. For example, a large well known luxury hotel chain with over 300 rooms will require at least five years of experience, and at least a Bachelor's degree in hospitality management. Working in lodging management positions with a Bachelor's degree in hospitality management, one can expect to make approximately $46,000 to $149,465 a year, with higher salaries being reserved for hotel general managers. Food and Beverage Food and beverage is another large portion of the hospitality management field. The U.S. restaurant industry includes about 630,000 restaurants with combined annual revenue of about $470 billion and over thirteen million employed. The U.S. Depart of Commerce forecasts that there will be about 65,000 new management positions created in this industry by the year 2022. Career options in the foodservice industry can be through hotels, restaurants, theme parks, institutional foodservice facilities (corporate, university dining, etc.), or many other options such as casinos, bars or food distribution companies. Some titles may include, Banquet Manager, Catering Manager, Director of Food and Beverage, Food and Beverage Manager, Food Service Director, Food Service Manager, Food Service Supervisor, Kitchen Manager, Restaurant General Manager, Restaurant Manager. A formal education will ensure a pathway to high-level management position. Food and beverage managers can expect to make between $45,000 and $105,000 a year, with higher salaries being reserved for directors of food and beverage of large hotels and casinos. Travel Travel is another area with opportunities for those interested in hospitality management. Possible job titles include cruise directors, specialized travel agents, youth and children activities directors, tour managers, and recreation managers. Travel industry managers can expect to make between $58,000 and $115,000 a year. Events The events planning field is another area where hospitality management opportunities are growing rapidly. The U.S. Department of Labor forecasts that there will be over 45,000 new management jobs in this are in the U.S. by the year 2022 and that the industry will experience a much faster than average growth rate.. Event planning can involve weddings, fundraisers, company conventions, concerts, and theater production. Management opportunities can include Catering Manager, Conference Manager, Conference Planner, Conference Planning Manager, Conference Services Manager, Convention Services Manager (CSM), Director of Conference Services, Director of Events, Event Manager, Events Manager, Venue Managers, House Manages, Technical Supervisors, Production Managers, and Events Managers. Events management personnel can expect to make between $53,000 and $103,000 a year. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/14/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.