Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Journalism Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Journalism Major Apply Visit Request More Info Journalism Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Journalism Develop your talent for reporting, writing and presenting information across print, radio, TV and web with the Bachelor of Arts in Journalism in the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication at Temple University. Gain on-the-ground experience covering a wide range of subjects, from community meetings and political events to music and sports. Acquire the rigorous reporting skills needed to tell engaging stories that highlight diverse voices and perspectives. Rooted in liberal arts studies, the Journalism Major is designed to increase your breadth of knowledge so you can produce credible and nuanced journalism. By combining urban community journalism with multimedia storytelling, this bachelor’s program makes Philadelphia an extension of the classroom. You will explore the inner workings of the city and its neighborhoods, using your newfound expertise to contribute to our student-generated news website, Philadelphia Neighborhoods. Whether your career aspirations involve creating content for online or print outlets, documenting international events for a major news media company, or reporting from election headquarters, you will become a dynamic storyteller who delivers accurate and timely information that captivates audiences. Classes & Curriculum The 124-credit Bachelor of Arts in Journalism includes core classes that ensure you graduate with a wide variety of talents, from reporting and writing to video production and basic web design. Focus on one area to develop your particular strengths or explore the program’s robust offerings. Among the courses in this degree program are the following. Audio/Visual Newsgathering Design for Journalists Journalism and Society The Practice and Process of News Writing and Reporting Students are also required to complete a Capstone Experience, reporting on the undercovered and underserved neighborhoods of Philadelphia for an area news outlet. Learn more about courses and requirements for the Journalism Major. Plus One: Graduate with a master’s in five years. Earn your bachelor’s and Master of Journalism degrees in a total of five years with our Plus One program. In this accelerated program of study, undergraduate students begin taking graduate-level journalism courses their senior year, satisfying the requirements of their bachelor’s and master’s degrees at the same time. This Plus One program is also open to students outside of the journalism major, allowing them to combine their academic interests with a multimedia journalism program that prepares them for any number of positions in digital and traditional media, and more. Contact Contact the following faculty member with more questions about this program. Logan Molyneux is the program director. Email: logan@temple.edu Minor in Journalism, Society and Culture Increase your critical-thinking skills and gain a richer understanding of the complex global media system. Learn about the political, economic, cultural and sociological issues that underlie journalism’s role in contemporary public life. For students aspiring to careers in a range of fields such as law, education and politics, this minor provides valuable perspective on how journalism impacts all aspects of life. You also will expand your knowledge around photography and video, research, web development and writing. Learn more about this minor. Contact Carolyn Kitch is the program contact for this minor. Email: ckitch@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-5077 Concentrations You can focus on Journalism or you can take the following concentration. International Communication Students in the International Communication Concentration (ICC) acquire a theoretical and practical education in international and intercultural communication and media. A unique opportunity for Klein students, this program allows you to obtain skills and knowledge in cultural sensitivity and intercultural communication by reflecting on your own cultural lens. Students participating in the ICC program are enlightened about various perspectives through an internationally and interculturally oriented curriculum. The program is offered on our domestic campuses, but students can supplement some coursework while studying abroad. View Concentration Details Related Graduate Degrees Media Studies and Production MA Journalism MJ Communication Management MS Communication for Development and Social Change MS Media and Communication PhD Related Graduate Certificates Cultural Analytics Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $18,168.00 per year Out-of-state: $31,440.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Our academic advisors will help you stay on track to graduate and ensure you remain on a clear professional path. Walk-in advising is available in the first two weeks of the semester for students who need assistance with any registration issues. Express advising is available for students throughout the rest of the semester. Advisors answer routine questions in 15-minute sessions. For more in-depth, personalized assistance, students may make appointments. To schedule an appointment or ask a question, contact our advising office. Email: advise@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-5273 You can also contact the advising office through TUportal under the Klein College tab. The Klein Advising Office, which serves all Klein majors, is located at the following address. Student Affairs/Advising Annenberg Hall, Room 9 2020 N. 13th St. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Important Dates Our academic calendar includes an overview of all relevant upcoming dates. Learn more about academic advising in the Journalism Major. Program Contacts Contact the following staff or faculty members with additional questions. David T. Z. Mindich is the chair of Klein’s Department of Journalism. Email: mindich@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-1788 Larry Stains is the assistant chair of the department. Email: lstains@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-1844 Rosalind Williams is the department’s office manager. Email: rwilliams@temple.edu Phone:215-204-8346 Explore our Department of Journalism faculty and staff directory. Student Clubs & Organizations Students in the Journalism Major not only study the craft of journalism—they also practice it. As a journalism student, you can work in several on-campus media outlets and student news organizations, including the following. Aperture Photo Agency is a student-run club dedicated to getting student work out into the public eye. Her Campus Temple is an online magazine where the women of Temple can access personalized information about what's happening on campus. An offshoot of HerCampus.com, this publication is written by Temple students. The Temple Association of Black Journalists aims to support students of color and all student journalists as they pursue their career goals. The Temple News, an award-winning student publication, has been the paper of record for the Temple community since 1921. TUTV is Temple’s digital cable station, and features programming that includes A Broader View, OwlSports Update and Temple Update. WHIP Radio, our student-run internet radio station, provides the opportunity for students to gain firsthand experience in radio production. Explore other options for getting involved on campus. Study Away Take on new challenges, experiences and viewpoints in an array of academic settings in the U.S. or around the world, through the Journalism Major’s Global Opportunities programs. Our Global Opportunities programs create leaders in media and communication by providing opportunities to study and work while experiencing life in influential urban centers throughout the world. You have the option of studying or interning in more than 20 destinations in the U.S. and around the world, including Dublin, London, Los Angeles, South Africa and more. These study away programs are designed to not only enhance your marketability in the global workplace, but also to increase your cultural capital and support your personal growth. Learn more about study away programs for the Journalism Major. Questions Representatives from our Global Opportunities office are available to answer any questions you may have. Email: kleingo@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-2354 Accreditation and Program Outcomes Temple’s Department of Journalism is one of only three programs in Pennsylvania that are accredited by the Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communications. Department Retention Rates The Department of Journalism consistently has had a very high retention rate of first-year students returning to Temple the following year. Fall 2008 cohort: 87% (entire university: 88%) Fall 2009 cohort: 89% (entire university: 89%) Fall 2010 cohort: 92% (entire university: 87%) Fall 2011 cohort: 91% (entire university: 87%) Fall 2012 cohort: 92% (entire university: 89%) Fall 2013 cohort: 88% (entire university: 89%) Fall 2014 cohort: 94% (entire university: 90%) Fall 2015 cohort: 95.1% (entire university: 90%) Fall 2016 cohort: 82.6% (entire university 90%) Fall 2017 cohort: 89.2% (entire university 89%) Fall 2018 cohort: 90.7% (entire university 89%) Fall 2019 cohort: 89.7% (entire university 87%) Department Graduation Rates The department’s graduation rate for the past three years is included below. Fall 2008 cohort Four-year rate: 52% Five-year rate: 68% Six-year rate: 72% (entire university: 69%) Fall 2009 cohort Four-year rate: 57% Five-year rate: 71% (entire university: 66%) Six-year rate: 79% (entire university: 70%) Fall 2010 cohort Four-year rate: 56% (entire university: 44%) Five-year rate: 72% (entire university: 65%) Six-year rate: 75.6% (entire university: 70%) Fall 2011 cohort Four-year rate (2015): 67% Five-year rate (2016): 82.5% Six-year rate (2017): 84.1% Fall 2012 cohort Four-year rate (2016): 58% Five-year rate (2017): 70.5% Six-year rate (2018): 72.3% Fall 2013 cohort Four-year rate (2017): 70.8% Five-year rate (2018): 83.3% Six-year rate (2019): 84.2% Fall 2014 cohort Four-year rate (2018): 70.1% Five-year rate (2019): 77.6% Six-year rate (2020): 82.2% Fall 2015 cohort Four-year rate (2019): 71.7% Five-year rate (2020): 78.3% Fall 2016 cohort Four-year rate (2020) 69.7% CO-JRN-BA Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Journalism Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info