Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Information for Faculty UGS Home Students General Education/Crossings Academic Partners Additional Resources Contact Us Regulations and Policies/Documents Download Undergraduate Class Regulations Letter Download Curriculum Guidelines Download the review "Why Rate My Professors and Other Sites Do Not Benefit Students' Registration Decisions" Academic Regulations Academic Eligibility — Guidelines in regards to eligibility standards to insure academic success. Academic Grievances — Link to academic catalog. Academic Integrity (Policy and procedures are also in the academic catalog.) Additional training for faculty on academic integrity: Short handout and Video Military Call Up Letters Undergraduate Committees The Council on Undergraduate Studies recommends to the Academic Council all policy matters which originate with it, from the colleges, the Faculty Senate, the Student Senate or form the various subcommittees that report to it. Undergraduate Curriculum Committee The University Curriculum Committees act for the faculty in reviewing all proposals for curricular changes, and recommends such changes to the Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost. The Undergraduate and Graduate Curriculum Committees shall have jurisdiction over undergraduate and graduate matters respectively. University Undergraduate Curriculum Committee - Approved curricula and minutes See Faculty Manual for additional information. Academic Advising Committee Oversees coordination of University activities (including college academic advising centers, academic support center, colleges, etc.); information advisors of current policies on advising; periodically reviews the mission of academic advising; coordinates assessments of the University advising system; and provides professional development for advisors. For more information, see the Academic Advising Website. Summer Reading Advisory Committee [Currently re-examining the role and implementation of the summer reading program. Contact Dean Griffin if you have questions.] Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram