COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Social Work, Master's Master'sSocial Work All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences School of Social Work Wichita State’s Master of Social Work (MSW) is a fully accredited program, with an emphasis in advanced generalist practice, designed to help you advance your career or enter the social work profession at an advanced professional level. The program combines quality classroom instruction and applied learning in community and state agencies throughout Kansas’ largest city. Learn how Social Work is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission to the program requires: A bachelor’s degree from an accredited four-year institution Evidence of a liberal arts background from an accredited college or university prior to enrollment A minimum 2.75 GPA based on the last 60 hours of coursework Completed applications to both the MSW program and the WSU Graduate School For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Social work students collaborate with veterans for Shift Space exhibit Students pursuing a master's degree in social work can help make an impact in our local community. A collaboration between the School of Social Work and the Robert J. Dole VA Medical Center gave students the opportunity to learn more about the plight of homeless veterans in Wichita. The project, which was part of the Creative Empowerment in Helping Professions class, culminated in a public art exhibition that displayed the work of homeless and formerly homeless veterans. Curriculum The regular MSW program consists of 63 credit hours, including 47 credit hours of classroom work and 16 credit hours of supervised practicum. The advanced standing program consists of 37 credit hours, including 29 credit hours of classroom work and eight credit hours of supervised practicum. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree in social work from Wichita State opens doors to high-demand careers in a wide range of settings, from mental health clinics and schools to community development corporations and hospitals. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Counseling (Master's) Psychology (Doctorate) Sociology (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©