Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Need help making a gift? Call 866-419-6768 Iowa State Logo Give Now Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Search Content: Home How to Give Areas to Support University Extension Iowa State University Extension and Outreach programs and initiatives are making a positive difference for Iowans. Each year, Extension reaches more than 1.5 million clients across the state, and thousands of volunteers are involved with its programs. Extension and Outreach diverse programming is focusing on three key initiatives: Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics (STEM) education for youth Global food security Economic development Extension takes research conducted at Iowa State University and turns it into learning opportunities for Iowans so… families make better nutrition choices kids and teens explore interests that can lead to future careers businesses improve their bottom line local leaders can make their communities better places to live Ongoing, private support is crucial to advancing the mission of University Extension and Outreach and providing benefits to all Iowans. Click here to make a gift online. Home Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Ivy College of Business College of Design College of Engineering College of Human Sciences College of Liberal Arts and Sciences College of Veterinary Medicine Iowa State Center Reiman Gardens University Extension University Library University Museums Scholarships Faculty Facilities FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are Careers Iowa State Highlights Reasons to say "THANK YOU" $1,542,356,968 Since the start of the Forever True, For Iowa State campaign, donors like you helped us exceed our historic $1.5 billion goal! “Scholarship support enhances my time at Iowa State and allows me to see the world while also gaining an amazing education.” - Margaret Leligdon, Junior, Civil Engineering Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are 2505 University Boulevard, P.O. Box 2230, Ames, Iowa 50010-2230, 866.419.6768. Copyright ©2016, Iowa State University Foundation. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Privacy Policy Website Terms of Use Back to Top