Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Student Financial Aid Federal School Code: 003425 Welcome to Student Financial Aid COVID Relief Information This 8-minute video describes some of the ways Clemson University and the federal government are helping needy students during the pandemic. Topics include emergency grants, loan forgiveness, financial aid appeals, and leniencies with academic requirements. Other benefits covered are food assistance and discounted internet service. Play Video Current phone availability is from 8:00 AM to 1:00 PM Monday - Friday. You can also chat with us from 2:00 PM to 4:00 PM Monday - Friday. If you need to reach a staff member, please email finaid@clemson.edu and we will respond to your email as soon as possible. A Clemson University education is an excellent investment in your and/or your child's future. The financial aid staff is here to help you understand the various financial aid programs that are available and to work individually with those who face significant financial difficulties during their career at Clemson. Overall, 87 percent of our students receive some type of financial assistance – which includes state, federal and University awards. Please review this site for information about our merit scholarships, need-based grants, loans and work-study. We are committed to providing the highest level of customer service to our students. For our currently enrolled students, you have several responsibilities as a recipient of financial aid, so please pay attention to the application process, deadlines and policies. Mission Statement The Clemson University Office of Student Financial Aid exists to help students secure the funds necessary to pursue their educational goals at Clemson University through the administration and implementation of federal, state and institutional programs of financial assistance. If you have any questions during the process, please be sure to contact our office, and we will help however we can. Important Notices 2022-2023 Award Packages -Incoming first-year students will be notified of their financial aid award packages by mid-to-late March 2022. Continuing undergraduate, undergraduate transfer and all graduate students will be notified of their financial aid packages by mid-June 2022. Students Selected for Verification — We are currently processing all documents for verification and other information requests in the order they are received. To view outstanding and received documents, please log into your iROAR account and select the Eligibility section under the Financial Aid tab. We will complete the verification process within several weeks of receiving all requested documents. All required documentation should be completed within your iROAR portal and all documents should be uploaded through the secure uploads provided. Documents sent through email will not be accepted for security purposes. Please do not submit documentation that has not been requested as this can delay the processing of your application. Two-factor authentication is required to access iROAR. Two-factor authentication asks individuals for a secondary confirmation of their identity at login using a physical device, such as an app or text message on your phone. Clemson University will use Duo Security for two-factor authentication. Please visit 2fa.clemson.edu for more information and to sign up for Duo Security. FERPA (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act) is a federal policy in place to protect students and their personal information. Clemson University's Office of Financial Aid has aligned its policies and procedures in compliance with this federal regulation. Effective July 1, 2016 - In order for us to speak to anyone other than the student, a signed FERPA waiver listing the individuals to whom the student grants permission to talk with our office must be submitted. This digital form is available in the student's iROAR account – Financial Aid – Unsatisfied Student Requirements. New students should have this form submitted by the first day of class. Failure to submit a FERPA waiver will NOT affect your aid eligibility or disbursement. The list of approved individuals can be updated at any time by emailing our office (finaid@clemson.edu) and requesting we re-open the FERPA waiver in iROAR. We will only use the information on the most recent waiver submitted to our office. More information on FERPAis available online. Financial Literacy — The Office of Student Financial Aid has developed a Financial Literacy website that contains information about saving, budgeting, loan repayment options and more. Please check it out and all of the useful tools included. Financial Aid for Study Abroad Appointment Requests — We have recently updated our scheduling system to use C.U. Navigate. More information can be found on our study abroad page. Navigating in iROAR — To view your bill: login to iROAR.clemson.edu and select the tab for Student Financial Services and then the following links: Optional Fees (to add a meal plan, etc.) or My Bill. To accept your aid: login to iROAR.clemson.edu and select the tab for Financial Aid and the following links: iROAR, Award, Award for Aid Year, Select the applicable "Financial Aid Year", Award Overview and Accept Award Offer. Financial Aid Tips & Advice from Clemson Students — A short video of tips and advice from Clemson students who have worked in the financial aid office. Clemson CRRSAA Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF)Reporting – Emergency Financial Aid Grants to Students On December 27, 2020, Congress passed the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2021 (CRRSAA), which provided Clemson University with $6,789,998 in funding for emergency financial aid grants. (This is in addition to the CARES Act Grants disbursed in May 2020.) We disbursed the funds in three tiers: we awarded $1,000 to Federal Pell Grant recipients; $750 to students with Expected Family Contributions (EFC) less than 10,000; and $500 to students with any gross financial need as demonstrated by a valid Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). In the initial disbursement on April 13, 2021, we awarded $6,645,750 to 9,426 students. As of September 14, 2021, we awarded $6,789,998 to 9,538 students. Students were informed by the email below: "We hope that your semester is drawing to a successful close and that you and your family are healthy and safe. We are pleased to share some good news. On December 27, 2020, Congress passed the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2021 (CRRSAA), which provided Clemson University with funding for emergency financial aid grants. Because you were identified as a student with financial need, you have been awarded a Clemson CRRSAA Grant. If you do not have any emergency needs, we encourage you to use your refund to pay current or upcoming tuition, or to pay down student loans if you have educational debt. To view your grant, please log in to your financial aid award page in iROAR. If you have authorized an eRefund with the billing office, your refund will be deposited in the account you designated. If not, we will send a paper check to your permanent address. We hope this grant will ease the financial strain caused by the pandemic. Good luck on your exams and final projects." Clemson CARES Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Reporting – Emergency Financial Aid Grants to Students (The following disclosure is in compliance with HEERF reporting as required in the Office of Postsecondary Education's Electronic Announcement 2020-05-06.) Clemson University signed certification with the U.S. Department of Education agreeing to use no less than 50% of our allocation from the CARES Act to provide emergency grants to students. Clemson University was allocated $6,789,998 for emergency grants, which were disbursed under the name Clemson CARES Grants beginning May 5, 2020. Over the next 6 months, Clemson disbursed $6,789,998 to 9,159 students. Clemson University had approximately 12,500 students who were eligible to participate in federal student financial aid programs, but we prioritized our students with the greatest need as encouraged by the Secretary of Education. We disbursed the funds in three tiers: we awarded $1,000 to Federal Pell Grant recipients; $900 to students with Expected Family Contributions (EFC) less than 10,000; and $500 to students with any gross financial need as demonstrated by the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). After the initial disbursement, we exhausted the small remaining balance by giving additional $100 grants to the neediest students. Students were notified of the award at their Clemson email address as follows: We hope that you had a successful close to your semester and that you and your family are healthy and safe. We are pleased to share some good news. On March 27, 2020, Congress passed the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, which provided Clemson University with funding for emergency financial aid grants. The U.S. Department of Education limited the funding to students eligible for federal student aid and encouraged schools to prioritize students with the greatest need. The funds are to assist students with expenses related to the disruption of campus operations due to the coronavirus. Because you were identified as a student in need who was impacted by the campus closure, you have been awarded a Clemson CARES Grant. To view your grant, please log in to your financial aid award page in iROAR. If you have authorized an eRefund with the billing office, your refund will be deposited in the account you designated. If not, we will send a paper check to your permanent address. By accepting the Clemson CARES Grant, you certify that you incurred expenses (such as food, housing, course materials, technology, healthcare, or childcare) related to the disruption to campus operations due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and you are prepared to provide documentation (if requested) that your expenses were greater than or equal to the amount of your grant. If your expenses were not greater than or equal to the amount of your grant, you must notify finaid@clemson.edu to reduce or remove your grant, and then repay your refund with eCheck on iROAR. We hope this grant will ease the financial strain caused by the pandemic, and we look forward to your safe return to campus. Clemson ARPA Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Reporting – Emergency Financial Aid Grants to Students On March 11, 2021, Congress passed the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (ARPA), which provided Clemson University with $18,105,028 in funding for emergency financial aid grants. (This is in addition to the CARES Act Grants disbursed in May 2020 and the CRRSAA Grants disbursed in March 2021.) We disbursed the funds in three tiers: we awarded $1,500-$1,600 to Federal Pell Grant recipients; $1,000-$1,100 to students with Expected Family Contributions (EFC) less than 10,000; and $500 to students with any gross financial need as demonstrated by a valid Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). As of April 1, 2022, we awarded $18,087,602 to 10,810 students. Through several outreach activities, we publicized the availability of grants and other COVID assistance for students, including two mass emails, social media posts, and a webinar. Recipients were informed by the email below: "We hope that your semester is off to a strong start and that you and your family are healthy and safe. We are pleased to share some good news. On March 11, 2021, Congress passed the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (ARPA), which provided Clemson University with funding for emergency financial aid grants. Because you were identified as a student with financial need, you have been awarded a Clemson ARPA Grant. If you do not have any emergency needs, we encourage you to use your refund to pay current or upcoming tuition and living expenses. To view your grant, please log in to your financial aid award page in iROAR. If you have authorized an eRefund with the billing office, your refund will be deposited in the account you designated. If not, we will send a paper check to your permanent address. We hope this grant will ease the financial strain caused by the pandemic. Have a safe and successful semester." Student Financial Aid Facebook Student Financial Aid Twitter Calculate Net Price Check Status Scholarships Costs to Attend Skip Twitter timeline Tweets by @ClemsonFinAid Skip to the start of the Twitter timeline Home Types of Students Types of Aid Aid Eligibility Deadlines and Timeline Costs Forms and Resources Summer Session Aid Terms and Conditions FAQ Contact Us Consumer Information Related Links iROAR Financial Literacy Residency Classification Accepted Students International Services Graduate School Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram