Jump to navigation Campus Services *For more information, please visit the Campus Services website Services Buildings & Facilities CommuterChoice Dining Energy & Utilities Housing ID Cards Mail Parking Printing Real Estate Sustainability Transit & Fleet Tools Travel Departments Dining Energy & Facilities Events Management Global Support Services Harvard Faculty Club Harvard International Office Harvard Real Estate Harvard University Housing Office for Sustainability Transportation The Harvard International Office (HIO) remains closed for walk-in advising. Please review the Contact Us page for information on contacting your HIO advisor, daily drop-in Zoom advising hours, and walk-in travel signature and document pick up hours. Harvard International Office About Us Statistics Profiles Contact Us Getting Started Student Visa Process Student Visa Options Applying for your Visa Transfer to Harvard and Change of Level Arriving in the U.S., HIO Registration, & Orientations New Student Welcome Guide Scholar Visa Process Scholar Visa Types Applying for your Visa J-1 Transfer to Harvard Arriving in the U.S., HIO Registration, & Orientations New Scholar Welcome Guide Student Intern Visa Process J-1 Student Intern Visa Applying for your Visa Arriving in the U.S., HIO Registration, & Orientations New Student Intern Welcome Guide Dependents and Family Members Dependent Visas Employment of J-2 Dependents Inviting Friends and Family Members to the U.S. Resources for Dependents Forms For All Change of Address Form HIO Dependent Data Sheet HIO Registration Form Visa Document Request Form For Students F-1 OPT Application Forms F-1 OPT Cap Gap Request Form F-1 Post-completion OPT Reporting Form F-1 STEM OPT Application Forms F-1 STEM OPT Reporting Form Host Program for International Students J-1 Academic Training Application Form J-1 Academic Training Evaluation Form J-1 On-Campus Employment Reporting Form Transfer-In Form For Students For Scholars & Student Interns J-1 Scholar Occasional Lecture Authorization Form J-1 Student Intern Certification of Enrollment and Expected Degree Completion J-1 Student Intern Evaluation Form Transfer-In Form For Scholars For Administrators HIO e-Form HIO Notice of Extension or Departure (eNED) ISD Manual J-1 Certification of English Language Proficiency J-1 Student Intern Checklist J-1 Student Intern Intake Form Travel Travel Within the U.S. Travel Outside the U.S. Travel on Post-Completion OPT, STEM OPT, or AT Renewing a Visa Issues While Traveling & Emergencies eShipGlobal Instructions Maintaining Visa Status For Students Your Immigration Responsibilities F-1 and J-1 On-Campus Employment F-1 CPT F-1 Employment with an International Organization F-1 OPT F-1 STEM OPT J-1 Academic Training Extensions Leave of Absence Leaving Harvard and Transferring Out For Scholars Your Immigration Responsibilities (J-1 Scholars) Your Immigration Responsibilities (all other visas) J-1 Scholar Occasional Lectures & Consultations Extensions Leaving Harvard and Transferring Out For Student Interns Your Immigration Responsibilities Extensions Ending Your Internship Harvard Resources Welcome Guide Bank Accounts & Credit Cards Cell Phones Harvard ID Health Care & Insurance HIO Orientations Host Program Housing J Exchange Visitor Guide Safety, Scams, & Identity Protection Spouses, Partners, & Children State Issued ID Taxes & Social Security Tax Filing Overview FAQ for Tax Filing Additional Tax Resources Social Security Number (SSN) Individual Tax Payer Identification Number (ITIN) Campus Resources Academic Life Athletic Facilities Counseling Services Harvard's International Community Libraries and Museums On-Campus Dining Religious Services Transportation HU Administrators About Visa Sponsorship at Harvard Department Responsibilities Types of Scholar Visas Using ISD Hiring International Students Extending Visa Status 212e and 12/24 Month Bars for J Visa Holders FAQ for Administrators Notice of Filing of Labor Condition Applications Search Placeholder Keyword Serving Harvard's International Community Home What's New May 20, 2022 In Person Document Pick up and Travel Signatures Moving As of Monday, May 23, 2022 the HIO will move the daily document pickup and travel signature services to the 8th floor of the Smith Campus Center, outside suite 864. The daily service will take place Monday through Friday from 12pm to 1pm, excluding holidays. You do not need to make an appointment for this walk-in service. If you need a travel signature or to pick up a document, please review the applicable instructions below. Note that this service is not intended for advising questions. HIO Advisors are available via email, phone, zoom appointments, and daily virtual advisor on call hours for advising questions. If you are in the Cambridge area and have available space on your Form I-20 or DS-2019 for a new travel signature, please attend the walk in hour for a signature. If you are in the Cambridge area and do not have available space on your Form I-20 or DS-2019 for a new travel signature, and/or need a new document for any reason, you must contact your HIO Advisor first to request a reissuance of your document. Once you have confirmation from the HIO that your document is ready for pick up, you may then come to the Smith Campus Center for this walk-in service. If you were informed by the HIO that a document is ready for pick up, you may attend the walk in hour with a photo ID to pick up the document. F-1 students who are not in the Cambridge area may contact their HIO Advisor via email to request an updated travel signature on your Form I-20. The HIO will respond to your request by sending you a new Form I-20 via email. J-1 Students and Scholars who are not in the Cambridge area will need to request a new document with a new travel signature to be shipped via FedEx. To request this service, please follow the steps to purchase a FedEx label using eShipGlobal.  April 20, 2022 Graduating Students: Apply for Post-Completion Work Authorization As a reminder, students graduating in May 2022 need to submit work authorization applications to remain in the U.S. and work in their field of study after graduation. Post-graduation work authorization needs to be approved before graduating students may begin any positions in the U.S., including on campus work at Harvard, after graduation. F-1 students will need to apply for Optional Practical Training (OPT). Details can be found here. A job offer is not required for OPT applications. OPT applications must be submitted before students depart the U.S. after graduation, or before the end of the 60 day grace period post-graduation. J-1 students will need to apply for Academic Training (AT). Details can be found here. A U.S. job offer is required to apply for AT. AT applications must be submitted to the HIO before the end of your 30 day grace period post-graduation. April 14, 2022 Green Cards and Work Visas: What Do I Need to Know? Session Recording The Harvard International Office provides informational sessions regarding future visa options and green cards each year. The session is hosted by a local immigration firm speaking about such topics as H-1Bs, TNs, O-1s, entrepreneurship, green cards and much more. The recording from the Spring 2022 session is now available online via this link. Please note that the university does not endorse any attorney or firm nor is this presentation intended to be legal advice. Personal Stories The best experience was being surrounded by like-minded people who want to strive to make a difference, whether small or big. Having the space to be able to listen to other people’s aspirations and future plans was very inspiring. Meera Almesmari - United Arab Emirates - Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard is a magnet for attracting both international friends and friends from home whom otherwise you will never meet. My friends now span across all continents and they are as easy as calling them up as soon as you land in any part of the world. Kinga Tshering - Bhutan - Harvard Divinity School Statistics Represented at Harvard this year International population over time International population this year Find Us 1350 Massachusetts Avenue Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center, Room 864 Cambridge, MA 02138 Map IT P: (617) 495-2789 F: (617) 495-4088 Mon, Wed, Thurs, Fri 9:00a.m. - 3:00p.m. Tues 11:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Navigate Getting Started Forms Travel Maintaining Visa Status Harvard Resources HU Administrators Search Keyword Dining Residential Dining Retail Dining Crimson Catering Transportation Shuttle Information Evening Van Service Charters Housing Living in HUH Graduate Commons Leasing/Property Management RELATED SERVICES | HARVARD.EDU | PRIVACY POLICY