Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Brown Center for the Study of Children At Risk NeoNatal Neurobehavioral Scale (NNNS-II) Brown Center for the Study of Children At Risk NeoNatal Neurobehavioral Scale (NNNS-II) The NeoNatal Neurobehavioral Scale (NNNS-II) examinesJoVE, 2014: Dr. Bigsby administering the NNNS the neurobehavioral organization, neurological reflexes, motor development - active and passive tone, and signs of stress and withdrawal of the at-risk and drug-exposed infant. It was designed to provide a comprehensive assessment of both neurological integrity and behavioral function. Additionally, the NNNS documents the range of withdrawal and stress behavior likely to be observed in assessment and intervention with substance-exposed infants. This neurobehavioral assessment is applicable to term, normal healthy infants, preterm infants and infants at risk due to factors such as prenatal substance exposure. As such, it is a useful tool for both researchers and clinicians. The exam is performed on infants who are medically stable in an open crib or isolette. Although a precise lower gestational age limit has not been set, the exam is probably not appropriate for infants less than 34 weeks of age. The upper age limit may also vary depending on the developmental maturation of the infant. A reasonable upper age limit is approximately 45 weeks (adjusted or conceptional age), but it may prove useful with even older infants. Application of the NNNS-II • Research with High Risk Infants including Pre-term and Substance Exposed Infants • Beneficial for Consultation with Parents, Families and Health Care Professionals • Clinical Assessment for Management of Infants in NICU or Normal Nurseries • Assists in Discharge Planning • Assists with the Development of Early Intervention Plans Invaluable To: Pediatricians, Neonatologists, Neurologists, Psychiatrists, Nurses, Psychologists, Occupational Therapists, Physical Therapists, & Early Intervention Professionals Watch an overview of how the NNNS is administered in the Journal of Visualized Experiments. *Use of the NNNS or NNNS-II requires training and certification. Click here for NNNS-II training and certification information. Home About the Center Faculty Research Ongoing Studies Topics of Interest Now Enrolling! Training Clinical Services Newborn Assessment - (NNNS-II) NNNS Publications NNNS Pediatrics Supplement NNNS-II Training and Certification Program Directions Archive News Print this Page Share this Page Center for the Study of Children at Risk Brown University 50 Holden Street, 1st Floor Providence, RI 02908 Phone 401-453-7640 Fax 401-453-7646 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory