Skip to main content University of Nevada, Las Vegas Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Topics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Menu U-N-L-V Campus Life Campus Life About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Find close Campus Life menu Campus Life Campus Life Home Arts and Entertainment Get Involved Las Vegas Our Campus Student Support School Spirit and Traditions Wellness close find region Find Search A-Z Index Directories Quick Links Bookstore Bookstore Calendar Calendar Campus Maps Campus Maps Degrees Degrees Libraries Libraries MyUNLV MyUNLV News Center News Center RebelCard RebelCard Rebelmail Rebelmail Social Media Social Media UNLV Mail UNLV Mail WebCampus WebCampus Loading Directories Home A-Z Index Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Employee Directory Contact UNLV Social Media Directory UNLV Mobile Apps Rebel Life Explore Life at UNLV—Virtually! From the comfort of your home, you can meet with an Admissions Counselor, take a virtual tour, or attend live video info sessions. Book A Virtual Event Life on Campus Life on campus has its benefits – from quick access to all your personal needs to independent living with a built-in support system. Choose UNLV and make us your home away from home. Student Support Student Support We know that it’s difficult to focus on your studies if you have more pressing basic needs. UNLV provides a variety of services that support students with issues such as food, housing, or transportation insecurity, child care, medical and mental health needs, and digital/technology access. Wellness Wellness Our goal is simple—help you be well in mind, body, and spirit. From physical fitness to your overall well-being, we’ve got you covered. Safety and Emergency Safety and Emergency We are committed to keep our campus community safe. Get information needed to stay safe and secure, and find out what to do in the event of an actual emergency. Housing Housing Living on campus lets you share the university experience with students from different cultures, be close to campus resources, and live independently in a supportive environment. Dining Dining You want food? We have options. Whether you want to indulge in a hearty meal before a big exam or just need to grab a quick study snack, you’re never far from feeding your hunger. Banking Banking Need to take care of your finances? No problem. The full-service US Bank branch in the Student Union helps you manage your money. Rebel Card Rebel Card The RebelCard, your official UNLV ID, can be used at the library and many other facilities on campus. You can also deposit money to your card, and use that RebelCash at participating locations on and off campus. Experience UNLV Your campus community plays an integral role and impacts your comfort, happiness, and success in your life at UNLV. Get Involved Get Involved Wanna be a Jedi? How about the voice of your classmates? Be whatever you want to be here at UNLV. Get involved, share your interests, and enrich your college experience. Find out how to get involved. Arts and Entertainment Arts and Entertainment We bring arts and entertainment to you. From world-class artists to notable speakers, we host a wide variety of cultural, educational, and academic activities that are open to the entire Southern Nevada community. Our Campus Our Campus Located minutes away from the Las Vegas Strip, and just a short drive from numerous attractions, our 350+ acre campus is at the heart of this thriving city. Diversity Diversity UNLV has created one of the most affirmative and dynamic academic environments in the country, earning the title of one of the most diverse universities for undergraduates by U.S. News & World Report. Everyone’s experience at UNLV is different from the next, but through our diversity and academic environment, we make sure everyone has the opportunity to succeed. School Spirit and Traditions School Spirit and Traditions We may be young, but we are mighty, and we have established many traditions in our short history. Whether kicking off the school year with Premier UNLV or fighting for the right to paint the Fremont Cannon, our Rebel pride shines through. Las Vegas Las Vegas Las Vegas - it’s in our name, it’s where we call home, and it’s a big part of who we are. Where else can you experience more than 300 days of sunshine a year, run a marathon alongside Elvis, and have unparalleled educational opportunities right at your fingertips? Wellness Coronavirus Information Safety and Emergency University Statements and Compliance Web Accessibility Top Tier 2.0 Employment Visit Our Campus Campus Maps Parking Information News Center Contact UNLV University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S. Maryland Pkwy. Las Vegas, NV 89154 Phone: 702-895-3011 Campus Notifications © 2022 UNLV Produced by UNLV Web & Digital Strategy UNLV.edu Privacy Statement Website Feedback Social Media at UNLV