Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Career Services Business Services Office Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Services Office of Broader Impacts of Geoscience Research (BIGR) Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Hall of Distinction JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Climate & the Environment Energy Geosciences Marine Geosciences Planetary Sciences & Geobiology Solid Earth & Tectonic Processes Surface & Hydrologic Processes Research Disciplines Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Advising Admissions Internal Transfers Degrees Offered Jackson Scholars Program Honors Program Financial Support Courses & Catalogs Field Experiences Why Geosciences? TNT 2021 Graduate Advising Admissions Degrees Offered EER Graduate Program Find a Supervisor Financial Support Courses & Catalogs External Grants & Scholarships Graduate Studies Committee Advising & Program Coordination Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services Career Center Geology Library Holland Family Student Center People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Employment Opportunities Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Chemical or Physical Hydrogeology Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Structural Geology/Tectonics JSG Community Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Research Scientists Postdocs Staff Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Desk Blogs Texas Geosciences Science Y’all In the News Scientist Profiles Newsletter 2015 Newsletter 2014 Newsletter PDF Archive Media Contacts Events DeFord Lecture Series Master’s Saturday Heads/Chairs on the Future of Undergraduate Geoscience Education Workshop Summit Materials, PowerPoints and Webcast Archive Background Reading Agenda Graduation Distinguished Lectures Association Meetings GSA 2014 SEG 2012 GSA 2012 2011 Meetings DGS Vehicle Reservation Calendar Submit an Event Skip to main content Close Search Bar Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies SearchMake a Gift About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Units Offices Contacts Diversity and Inclusion JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Graduate Advising Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services People JSG Directory Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Employment Opportunities Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Office Blogs In the News Newsletter Media Contacts Events Events Calendar Lectures & Seminars Association Meetings Summits JSG Graduation Menu Home Education Undergraduate Financial Support Financial Support Through the Geology Foundation, the Jackson School of Geosciences (JSG) is able to provide financial assistance to its undergraduate and graduate students through funds established by individuals, foundations, and industrial or research organizations. All students may also seek financial assistance through the University’s Office of Student Financial Services. Undergraduate Scholarships Scholarships are currently awarded on the basis of academic standing and performance including, but not limited to, grade point average, progress towards degree, and hours completed. Additional scholarship opportunities that may be available to Jackson School undergraduates while enrolled full-time as geosciences majors include field course financial assistance and an emergency loan program. Frequently Asked Questions If you have a scholarship question not listed below please use the form below to make an inquiry. What's the minimum GPA required to apply? A 3.5 UT overall GPA is required in order to be eligible for the JSG Undergraduate Scholarship. How will I receive my scholarship? JSG Undergraduate Scholarship funds will go directly to a student's tuition bill. Will I have to write a donor thank you letter in order to receive my award? Yes. Students are required to write a thank you letter in order to receive the JSG Undergraduate Scholarship. If I have a program (Texas Tomorrow Fund) that already pays for tuition, what steps can I take to ensure that I am able to use the Jackson School Scholarship for another educational purpose like housing? Students who are recipients of the Texas Tomorrow Fund will need to self-identify on the JSG Undergraduate Scholarship Application. Doing so will notify our office to process your award differently. "Did your GPA improve last semester?" As a freshman, I only have my GPA from last semester so it didn't improve or decline. Should I answer yes or no? For freshmen and transfer students whose first semester was their last semester, you should answer 'No'. This will not negatively impact your eligibility for the JSG Undergraduate Scholarship. I tried to apply and it said it could not submit my application because I am ineligible to apply. Why is this? In order to be eligible for the JSG Undergraduate Scholarship, a student must have a 3.5 overall UT GPA. Do I have to apply to be considered for a JSG UG Merit-based Scholarship? Yes. The application deadline is March 24, 2017 Field Course Financial Assistance Financial assistance is for undergraduates enrolled in a summer course that fulfills their degree’s field experience course requirements such as GEO 660 Field Geology, GEO 376L Field Methods in Groundwater Hydrogeology, or GEO 348K Marine Geology and Geophysics. The field course financial assistance program is funded through endowed accounts maintained by the Geology Foundation for which donors have specifically expressed their desire to support undergraduate field experiences. Availability of funds, award criteria, and individual award amounts may vary from year to year. Academic standing and performance as well as expected graduation date are most often included in the review process. These awards are intended to help defray a portion of the total course costs for as many enrolled students as possible. University Support The Office of Student Financial Services offers a number of resources to help new and current students with financial aid and managing college finances, including: Bevonomics. Bevonomics teaches students how to better manage their money, credit, and debt. The Daily Texan described the program in their article, “Workshop Educates Students on Facts about Leasing.” This is one of several Bevonomics workshops currently being offered on campus. A full schedule of these workshops can be found on the Bevonomics website. Continuing and Transfer Scholarships. The UT Austin Continuing & Transfer Scholarship Application is available in November of each year and is used to award students for the following academic year. This online application is strictly for continuing students who are eligible to enroll, external transfer students who have been officially admitted or have completed an application for transfer admission, AND returning UT Austin students who are applying for readmission to The University of Texas at Austin. Students participating in the Coordinated Admissions Program (CAP), seeking admission to UT Austin can also use this online application. TexasScholarships.org. Student Financial Services also has an on-line service called TexasScholarships.org on which we post information about private scholarship opportunities. TexasScholarships.org provides links to reputable scholarship search engines. It is available 24/7 to all students admitted to or enrolled in the University. UT4Less. UT4Less is an online resource for undergraduates to learn how to make the world-class education UT offers as affordable as possible, and to limit their borrowing to only what they absolutely need. Education Undergraduate Advising Admissions Internal Transfers Degrees Offered Jackson Scholars Program Honors Program Financial Support Courses & Catalogs Field Experiences Why Geosciences? TNT 2021 Graduate Advising & Program Coordination Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services Career Center Geology Library Holland Family Student Center Mailing Address Jackson School of Geosciences 2305 Speedway Stop C1160 Austin, TX 78712-1692 Phone (512) 471-6048 Support JSG Departments & Units Department of Geological Sciences Bureau of Economic Geology Institute for Geophysics Administration & Offices College Leadership Career Services Business Services Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Office Helpful Links UT Austin UT Direct Emergency Information IT Help JSG Directory JSG Profiles Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed © 2022 Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader