Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Apply Transfer FAQs FAQs Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs What are the minimum requirements for transferring to SMU? SMU’s Office of Undergraduate Admission separates transfer students into two categories, transfer and first-year transfer, based on the number of transferrable hours completed at the time of application. For full details on transfer requirements, visit our Transfer Admission page. What is the maximum number of units that can transfer? A minimum of 60 credit hours must be completed at SMU to earn your degree. However, if you have more than 62 transferable hours, they will all “transfer” and be used in the admissions, scholarship and financial aid process. You and your SMU academic advisor will determine which hours will apply to your degree. Which courses transfer to SMU? Each academic department determines which courses will transfer. Based on your credit transfer evaluation and several other factors, the Admission Office determines your admissibility. Generally, if SMU has a comparable course (equal in content and level), you are likely to receive credit for the course. If you attend Dallas County Community College, Tarrant County College, or Collin College, transferability can be easily determined because we have equivalency guides for those colleges. Is transfer credit given for correspondence courses? No. Who determines which courses will transfer? The individual academic departments for each school determine course transferability. Do I need to submit my high school transcript? Yes, we use the high school transcript for several reasons: 1) to verify math readiness (algebra I, geometry, algebra II) when the college transcript does not show college algebra or higher, 2) to determine admissibility of a transfer student who has less than 30 transferable hours and 3) to register and to verify two years of the same foreign language. How is my transferable GPA calculated? Your transferable GPA is determined by including all courses that are considered comparable to SMU courses from every college attended. The number of grade points earned is divided by the number of attempted hours. If you receive a D or F in a comparable course, the D or F will be used in the calculation of your GPA, but you will not actually be awarded transfer credit for that course, since SMU does not award credit for grades lower than C-. If you receive a D or F in a course that is not comparable, then it will not be counted in the GPA. What kinds of scholarship opportunities are available for transfer students? Full tuition opportunities exist for students from Dallas, Collin, Tarrant, Grayson, Kaufman and Navarro County Community College Districts with 50 transferable hours and a 3.70 GPA. Half tuition opportunities also exist for transfer students coming from any college or university with 50 transferable hours and a 3.70 GPA. For more information, visit Transfer Scholarships. First-year transfers with a competitive high school profile and less than 30 transferable hours may be eligible for First-Year Scholarships. On what should I write my essay, and how long should it be? While an essay is not required for transfer admission, it is strongly encouraged. The essay provides a chance to move beyond the numbers and statistics. It's your chance to set yourself apart from all the other applicants. A thoughtful, well-written essay can positively influence the admission committee's final decision and is a critical element in the selection of winners for competitive scholarships. The essay topic and length will be determined by the application method (The Common Application, ApplyTexas, SMU Transfer Application) you choose. All essays will be reviewed equally, regardless of application type. Do foreign transcripts require additional documentation? Yes. Any student who submits a foreign transcript is responsible for submitting the additional documentation required for evaluation. Keep in mind that for SMU to convert the courses to US credits, we need very specific information about the term calendar year, grading scale, course descriptions, length of class, etc. To understand more about the documentation required, see Transfer Credit Policies for International Students. What kinds of resources are available to U.S. Veterans transferring to SMU? Veterans must meet general admission requirements for transfer. For information on benefits and financial assistance, see our Veterans Affairs page. Do I have to reapply if I have previously applied? You do not have to fill out another application, but you do need to complete a Transfer Update Form. How do I seek readmission to the University? If you were previously enrolled at SMU, but have not been enrolled for two or more regular terms (regular terms are fall and spring), or if you have been suspended, then you must be readmitted to SMU. To begin the readmission process, you must complete the Readmission Application (PDF). Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search