Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Areas Student Orgs Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs MA in SLP Admissions Curriculum Non-CSD Coursework Clinical Education Additional Information Apply Now SLP Program Description SLP Program Goals AuD in Audiology Admissions Curriculum Non-CSD Coursework Clinical Education Additional Information Apply Now AuD Program Description AuD Program Goals AuD Specialization Tracks AuD-PhD Program Dual AuD-MPH Program PhD in CSD AdmissionsApply Now Program DescriptionPhD Program Goals American Sign Language ASL and Deaf StudiesASL CoursesASL as World LanguageASL MinorASL Placement and CreditWhy ASL? Graduate Certificates AACPopulation Hearing HealthVocology Continuing Education Walt Fritz Seminar Diversity Take Action Apply Now Support the School Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Programs Apply Now Apply Now Diversity The School has made recruiting and graduating students from underrepresented populations into the professional programs a priority. Find out more about our diversity initiatives. Application Process Doctor of Audiology (Au.D.) Master of Arts (M.A.) in Speech-Language Pathology The professional degree programs (AuD and MA) in the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders use a centralized application known as the Communication Sciences & Disorders Centralized Application Service (CSDCAS). CSDCAS is a common application that is specific to Communication Sciences and Disorders. All applications will be reviewed only through CSDCAS. All applicants with degrees in areas other than CSD must have their degree conferred no later than Spring 2022 in order to be considered for admission to the Fall 2022 class. Applications for the professional degree programs (AuD and MA) must be completed and verified by CSDCAS by February 1, 2022. A verified application means that it has been e-submitted, payment has been received, and ALL documentation has been received. We recommend that you e-submit your application at least four weeks in advance of the February 1st deadline to ensure the application is verified on time. Please note that official GRE scores must be sent directly to CSDCAS from ETS using Code 1756. Please do not send your scores to the University of Memphis. International students are required to take the GRE and the TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo English Test and submit official scores for both with their applications. All international students MUST have an external organization evaluate their transcripts (e.g., WES – World Education Services) at the time they apply and have those results sent directly to CSDCAS. Once admitted, international students are required to submit a health certificate from a U.S. based physician or health service certifying that they are free from tuberculosis. They must also have health insurance. In order to qualify for an F-1 visa, applicants should submit an affidavit of support and a financial statement that demonstrate that no financial support, aside from an assistantship, will be required for the applicant and his/her dependents to reside in the U.S. The University can enroll non-immigrant alien students on the F-1 visa. All international applicants must have the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor's degree. Financial Resources for the Application Process Financial assistance is available from ETS to reduce the fees for the GRE. In addition, students who qualify can request an Application Fee Waiver from CSDCAS at this link. It is the student's responsibility to monitor the status of the CSDCAS application and ensure that all materials are received and verified by the deadline. An incomplete application cannot be reviewed by the Admissions Committee. CSDCAS Application CSDCAS APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS Please read through all instructions below before beginning your CSDCAS application. You are also encouraged to refer to the CSDCAS FAQs. Complete the CSDCAS Application. The CSDCAS portal opens on July 15, 2021; you can access the CSDCAS portal here. Transcripts: Submit OFFICIAL transcripts from ALL universities you have attended to the CSDCAS portal. Your transcripts should include grades from the Fall semester of your senior year. You will be prompted to download a form that requests official transcripts from each college or university you have attended. You will also be prompted to enter individual classes you have taken on the CSDCAS portal. Both steps need to be completed. Your transcripts must include grades from the Fall semester of your senior year. The transcript entry process must be completed in order for CSDCAS to calculate your GPA. If you choose to pay for the transcript entry service instead of manually entering your grades yourself, be sure that you e-submit your application in plenty of time for CSDCAS to enter your grades for you. CSDCAS will not start entering your grades until after you have submitted the application and paid the application fees, even if they have already received your transcripts and your transcript grade entry fee. If you wait until late January to e-submit, your grades will likely not be entered before the February 1, 2022 deadline, and your application will not be reviewed. GRE Scores: CSDCAS will only accept scores that they have received directly from ETS. Be sure to use the CSDCAS program code 1756 to submit your scores for your application. TOEFL Scores: All students who need to submit TOEFL scores as a part of their application should use code C122 to submit their scores to CSDCAS. TOEFL scores are required for all applicants whose first language is not English. The requirement can be waived for students who have earned a degree from a University where English was the instructional language. Students can also submit IELTS or Duolingo scores. Letters of Recommendation: Submit 3 letters of recommendation from faculty or other individuals who can provide information regarding your potential for graduate study and clinical work. It is important that you select your letter writers carefully and insure that they can speak to your qualities as a student and future clinician. For non-traditional students, a clinician you have completed observation with or a supervisor from a work or volunteer setting can also provide valuable information about your ability to work with patients or in a clinical setting. You will be prompted by the CSDCAS portal to enter the names and email addresses of individuals who will write your recommendation letters. This will generate an email to those individuals who will upload their letters directly to CSDCAS. It is your responsibility to follow up with these individuals to ensure their letters are uploaded by the deadline. Letters of Recommendation are listed as "Evaluations" in the "Supporting Information" section of CSDCAS. Personal Essays (2): All applicants are required to submit a response to each of the personal essay questions included in the application. The essays should include information that the committee will not learn by reading the rest of your application. Each answer should be relevant and specific. Any unusual aspects of your academic history should be addressed in these essays. Each response should be no more than 300 words in a single-spaced document with 1-inch margins. Well written essays will express profound reflection. Use specific references to events, ideas, and experiences. Provide internal qualities and attributes to describe one’s own behavior and character traits that define who you are or who a person is. Avoid using impersonal and artificial responses and vague sentences like “I’m passionate about this profession because I want to help people communicate.” Describe a Period of Personal Growth: Reflect on an accomplishment, event, challenging situation, or any sort of experience that sparked personal growth, maturation, or new understanding. How did this experience shape you or change your perspective? Describe the circumstances, your role in these events, and the way(s) you were impacted. Describe what Motivates You: Describe something meaningful to you. For example, express why you care about an idea or topic, why you respect someone, or what inspires you. Explain how this concept, person, goal or activity has become personal to you, and what it reveals about you. Upload your personal essays under “Documents.” Analysis Essay: Click on this link and describe the results and application of the data presented in the graph. What do the results mean for your client who has a mild communication disorder and your client who has a moderate communication disorder? Limit your response to 150 words. Upload your analysis essay under "Documents". Video Submission: Upload a one-minute video in response to one of the prompts listed below. If you do not submit your response, your application will be considered incomplete and you will not be considered for admission. Your response should be relevant and specific. Vague responses do not tell us anything about you. We are interested in the content of your response, rather than the recording quality. Begin by formally introducing yourself and describe why you want to attend the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders at the University of Memphis. Avoid vague statements such as “to get a good education” or “develop career skills” and go beyond “reputation or ranking.” What programs, professors, and other opportunities appeal to you? Then respond to one of the prompts below: Describe what makes you a good candidate for the speech-language pathology or audiology program in the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders at the University of Memphis. Describe how you would contribute to or enhance the professional culture of our School of Communication Sciences and Disorders at the University of Memphis. What are the elements of a positive professional culture? Describe why you want to be a speech-language pathologist or an audiologist. Identify one strength and weakness. How will these contribute to your success as a graduate student and professional? Describe how you will compensate or overcome your weakness. Once you have completed your video, please upload it to YouTube (be sure your video is NOT set to "private" or we will be unable to view it; instead, please select "unlisted") and copy/paste the link in the Questions section of the CSDCAS application. Instructions for creating YouTube video/link can be found on our website. Experiences: We are very interested in the experiences you have had outside of your academic schoolwork. When completing this section of the application, please indicate relevant experiences you have had in Employment, Extracurricular Activities, Leadership, Research, Shadowing, and/or Volunteer/Community Enrichment. Enter your experiences in the order of their relevance and/or significance to your application. We are looking for quality involvement, so please do not list every single experience you have had in each category, especially if they were limited to only a few hours or days. If possible, try to combine individual entries to streamline the information and limit your description of each experience to a single sentence that highlights essential points. Begin uploading documentation to your CSDCAS application early! All CSDCAS applications must be VERIFIED by CSDCAS by February 1, 2022. A verified application means that it has been e-submitted, payment has been received, and ALL documentation (ALL official transcripts, official GRE scores, letters of recommendation, and analysis essay and your video uplink) has been received. Although our deadline of receipt and verification of your application is Feb 1, 2022, we recommend that you e-submit your application at least four weeks in advance of the February 1st deadline to allow time for verification. CSDCAS cannot verify your application until all official transcripts have been received, grades have been entered, and GRE scores have been received, so be sure to get those documents submitted early in the Fall. You can e-submit and pay for your application once you have entered your personal information, regardless of whether or not your transcripts, personal statement, analysis essay or letters of recommendation have been received by CSDCAS. Please note, however, that CSDCAS will NOT begin to review your application until all of your transcripts and payments have also been received, which will "complete" your application. Once your application becomes complete, it will be placed in line for verification. Regularly check your CSDCAS portal to monitor your application and the receipt of ALL supporting documents. To increase the likelihood that your application will be completed in time for review, please see our Suggestions page. It is the student’s responsibility to monitor the status of the CSDCAS application and ensure that all materials are received and verified by the deadline. An incomplete application cannot be reviewed by the Admissions Committee. Checklist for Your CSDCAS Application: Review all of the instructions on the CSDCAS site before completing your application. No later than October 1, begin requesting transcripts, GRE scores, and letters of recommendation that will be submitted directly to CSDCAS. The University of Memphis CSDCAS program code is 1756. Your GRE scores will not become a part of your application unless they are submitted to program code 1756 and they cannot be transmitted to CSDCAS by anyone other than ETS. Upload your personal essays (2). Upload your analysis essay. Enter all grades using transcript entry in CSDCAS. Paste a link to your YouTube video in the Questions section of the CSDCAS application. Submit your completed CSDCAS application four weeks before February 1, 2022, so that CSDCAS has time to verify your documents. Regularly check your CSDCAS portal to monitor your application and the receipt of all supporting documents. DO NOT send any documents directly to the University of Memphis. IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO MONITOR THE PORTAL AND ENSURE THAT NO DOCUMENTS ARE MISSING. CSDCAS Customer Service CSDCAS Customer Service is available Monday thru Friday from 9:00AM to 5:00PM EST Phone 617.612.2030 E-Mail csdcasinfo@csdcas.org CSDCAS Address All official transcripts MUST be sent to CSDCAS at the address below: CSDCAS Verification Department P.O. Box 9113 Watertown, MA 02471 For General Questions Regarding our Academic Programs or the Application Process, Contact us at: admissionscsd@memphis.edu To Verify the Status of Your Application for the Program, Please Contact: Frances Breland or Dr. Lynda Feenaughty, Admissions Coordinator, at 678.5800, or by emailing admissionscsd@memphis.edu. For Specific Questions Regarding our Academic Programs Please Contact: Master of Arts (M.A.) in Speech-Language Pathology Degree Program Naomi Eichorn, Ph.D., Assistant Professor (e-mail: neichorn@memphis.edu, telephone: 901.678.5800) Doctor of Audiology (Au.D.) Degree Program Lisa Lucks Mendel, Ph.D., Associate Dean of Graduate Studies (e-mail: lmendel@memphis.edu, telephone: 901.678.5800) Student Contact Janine Peca, SLP Graduate Student (e-mail: jpeca@memphis.edu, telephone: 901.678.5800) Christine Sledge, AuD Graduate Student (e-mail: cesledge@memphis.edu, Telephone: 901.678.5800) Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.