Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Academic Advising Center Main Navigation About Us Show Extended What We Do General Education General Grad Requirements Undeclared Academic Success Liberal Education Major and Minor Exploration Staff Faculty Development Certificate Faculty and Staff Training Videos Navigate Student App AAC Office Location Gordon Hall-123(formerly University Hall), 800 N State College Blvd, Fullerton, California 92831 Academic advising center hours Days Office Hours: Advising Hours: Monday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 3:30 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Tuesday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Wednesday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Thursday 8 am — 12 pm; 1 pm — 5 pm 9:00 am —11:30 am; 1:00 pm — 3:30 pm Friday 8 am — 12 pm 8:30 am —11:30 am Phone : (657) 278-3606 Fax : (657) 278-7146 Contact Academic Advising Center Current Students Show Extended Freshmen Major Exploration Remediation Tutoring Services Undeclared Transfer Students New Student Transfer Workshop AAT/AST Assist.org GE breadth certification Seniors Graduation Requirements Applying for Graduation Graduation Specialists Mandatory Advising Workshops FAQs Continuing Students Undeclared Undeclared Students Show Extended Major Exploration Titan Major Exploration Program Exploring Majors Appointments Assessing Personal and Career Interests Exploring Careers Declare a Major Prospective Students Show Extended Transfer Students New Student Transfer Workshop Incomplete TDAs Returning Students Major Advising Re-enrollment Information Incoming First Time Freshman AP Scores and Transcripts Academic Success Show Extended IMPROVING GPA Repeats Grade Forgiveness Balanced Schedule Time Management Academic support resources University Learning Center English Department Writing Center CBE Tutoring Center OCSAMS CASECS Student Technology Services Academic Notice and Disqualification Academic Notice Academic Disqualification Fullerton Finish TitanNet Academic Planner Academic Notice and Disqualification Requirements Major Exploration GPA Calculator AAC Virtual Printable FERPA Release Form The AAC will be closed on Friday, June 3rd 2022. Welcome to the Academic Advising Center virtual services. Although our team of advisors is returning to campus beginning August 2, 2021, we remain committed to providing many services virtually. Please check this page for updated hours of support. Thank you in advance for your cooperation as we strive to keep ourselves, our students, our families, and communities safe and healthy. AAC Virtual Services Follow the AAC on Instagram for updates and resources: @csuf_aac 1. Pop-In GE Academic Advising Modeled after our in-person walk-in hours, current undergraduate students will have a chance to meet with a GE Advisor to ask quick questions about General Education or overall degree requirements. Sessions with advisors will be limited to 10 minutes. Students will be placed in a virtual waiting room upon arrival, and will be greeted by a front desk representative when it is their turn. The front desk will ask questions to determine how best to support students. If an advising session is necessary, the student will be assigned to speak with a GE Advisor. If not, the front desk will provide helpful information and refer students to the appropriate department or resource for further assistance. Pop-In GE Advising is available on Zoom: Morning: 9:00 am -11:30 am : Monday ,Thursday, and Friday Afternoon: 1:00 pm - 3:30 pm : Tuesday and Wednesday Click below to go to the Pop-In AAC Zoom Waiting Room during the times listed above Visit the Pop-In AAC Zoom Waiting Room If the above link doesn't work, please copy and paste this link to your browser: https://fullerton.zoom.us/s/5971451103 2. TitanNet Academic Advising Center Appointments If you would like to have a one-on-one, live meeting with a GE advisor via Zoom, you may make an appointment* by downloading the Navigate Student app . You can also schedule a TitanNet GE Academic Advising Center Appointment through your Student Portal. Please refer to the GE Appointment Scheduling Guide to help you navigate how to schedule an appointment. *Please note that we will add new appointments on a rolling basis, about 5 days out. We do not provide major advising. Before attending a Pop-In or TitanNet Advising session please view these informational resources that apply to you so that you can come prepared. Using your TDA to choose GE Classes Fall 2019 and newer Catalog: TDA Overview for GE Fall 2019 and Newer Catalogs [Video] Fall 2018 to Spring 2019 Catalog Year - TDA Overview for Fall 2018/Spring 2019 Catalogs [Video] Spring 2018 and Earlier Catalog Years - TDA Overview for Spring 2018 - Older Catalogs [Video] Running a Titan Degree Audit - Visit the guide to Titan Degree Audit(TDA) How to use Zoom - How to join zoom meeting These Zoom appointments are for current CSUF students. Incoming students please visit fullerton.edu/Orientation for your advising and registration support. This site is maintained by Academic Advising Center. Last Published 5/16/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact zz-pasharma@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.