Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE NEUROLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 NEURL 495 Community Rehabilitation of the Neurologically Impaired: Internship (*, max. 5) Fraser, Clemmons Supervised work with a neurologically disabled vocational rehabilitation population within a multidisciplinary vocational rehabilitation unit. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 495 NEURL 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 25) Provides an opportunity to gain research experience and direct participation in clinical or basic science investigation in neurological topics. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 499 NEURL 505 P-Preceptorship in Neurology (1, max. 12) Provides an opportunity for first and second-year medical students to gain personal experience with neurology practice situations by being stationed with carefully selected clinical faculty members in their offices. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Kraus Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 505 NEURL 536 Topics in Clinical Neurology (1) Spain Lectures on epilepsy, stroke, coma, drug overdose, dementia, headache, myelopathies, infectious disease. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 536 NEURL 555 Frontiers in Neuroimmunology (1) Current concepts and developments in neuroimmunology. Prerequisite: either NBIO 301 or IMMUN 441. Instructors: Moeller Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 555 NEURL 559 Neurobiology of Disease (3) Introduces medically important neurological and psychiatric diseases and experimental approaches to understanding the basis for diseases and their treatments. Covers stroke, epilepsy, autoimmune diseases of the CNS, neurodegenerative diseases, autism, psychosis, anxiety disorders, and mood disorders. Offered: jointly with NEURO 559/P BIO 559. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 559 NEURL 598 P-Neurology Independent Study and Radiation (1-8, max. 8) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Neurology clerkship offered during the patient care phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 598 NEURL 600 P-Independent Study or Research (*) Prerequisite: Instructor permission. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 600 NEURL 631 P- Introduction to Neurology - Cheyenne (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology, at Cheyenne Regional Medical Center Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 631 NEURL 632 P-Introduction to Neurology - Casper, WY (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology in Casper, WY. For third- or fourth-year students. Prerequisite: medicine, or family medicine, or surgery, or pediatrics. Instructors: Kraus Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 632 NEURL 633 P-Introduction to Neurology - Anchorage - Alaska Neurology Clinic (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology. For third- or fourth-year students. Prerequisite: medicine, or family medicine, or surgery, or pediatrics. Instructors: Kraus Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 633 NEURL 634 P-Introduction to Neurology - Anchorage - ANMC (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Alaska Native Medical Center in Anchorage, Alaska. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 634 NEURL 636 P-Introduction to Neurology-Kalispell (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology, at kalispell Regional Medical Center. For third- or fourth-year students. Prerequisite: Medicine, or family medicine, or surgery, or pediatrics. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 636 NEURL 637 P-Introduction to Neurology-Missoula (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Montana Neurobehavioral Specialist in Missoula, MT. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 637 NEURL 638 P-Introduction to Neurology - Great Falls (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Advanced Neurology Specialists in Great Falls, Montana. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 638 NEURL 639 P-Introduction to Neurology - Billings Regional Neuroscience Clinic (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Neurology Associates in Billings, Montana. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 639 NEURL 640 P-Introduction to Neurology - Billings Clinic (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Billings Clinic in Billings, Montana. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 640 NEURL 641 P-Introduction to Neurology- Bozeman (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at the office of Dr. Joshua Knappenberger in Bozeman, Montana. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 641 NEURL 642 P-Introduction to Neurology- St. Lukes Boise (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology. For third- or fourth-year students. Prerequisite: medicine, or family medicine, or surgery, or pediatrics. Instructors: Kraus Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 642 NEURL 643 P-Introduction to Neurology - Dr. Lyons, Boise (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at the office of Dr. George Lyons in Boise, Idaho. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 643 NEURL 644 P-Introduction to Neurology - Idaho Falls EINA (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at the office of Dr. Stephen Vincent in Idaho Falls, Idaho. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 644 NEURL 645 P-Introduction to Neurology - Idaho Falls Neurology (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at the office of Dr. Erich Garland in Idaho Falls, Idaho. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 645 NEURL 647 P-Introduction to Neurology - Boise St. Alphonsus (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at the office of Dr. Karin Lindholm in Boise, Idaho. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 647 NEURL 648 P-Introduction to Neurology - Coeur D' Alene (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at the office of Dr. Michael Coats in Coeur d' Alene, Idaho. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 648 NEURL 649 P-Introduction to Neurology - Tacoma St. Joseph (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology in Tacoma, WA. For third- or fourth-year students. Prerequisite: medicine, or family medicine, or surgery, or pediatrics. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 649 NEURL 650 P-Introduction to Neurology - Lacey, WA (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology in Lacey, WA. For third- or fourth-year students. Prerequisite: medicine, or family medicine, or surgery, or pediatrics. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 650 NEURL 651 P-Introduction to Neurology - Kirkland, WA (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology in Kirkland, WA. For third- or fourth-year students. Prerequisite: either medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 651 NEURL 652 P-Introduction to Neurology - Spokane Rockwood Clinic (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology in Spokane, WA. For third- or fourth-year students. Prerequisite: medicine, or family medicine, or surgery, or pediatrics. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 652 NEURL 653 P-Introduction to Neurology - Spokane CMA, WA (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology in Spokane, WA. For third- or fourth-year students. Prerequisite: either medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 653 NEURL 654 P-Introduction to Neurology - Selkirk (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Selkirk Neurology in Spokane, Washington. For third- or fourth-year students. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 654 NEURL 655 P-Introduction to Neurology - Spokane (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology in Spokane, Washington. For third- or fourth-year students. Prerequisite: medicine, or family medicine, or surgery, or pediatrics. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 655 NEURL 656 P-Introduction to Neurology - Wenatchee- Confluence Health (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Wenatchee Valley Medical Center in Wenatchee, Washington. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 656 NEURL 657 P-Introduction to Neurology - Yakima (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at the office of Dr. Richard Sloop in Yakima, Washington. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 657 NEURL 658 P-Introduction to Neurology - Olympia Neurology (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Olympia Neurology in Olympia, Washington. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 658 NEURL 659 P-Introduction to Neurology - NW Neurology, Lakewoood (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Northwest Neurology, a Franciscan Medical Group clinic, in Lakewood, Washington. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 659 NEURL 660 P-Introduction to Neurology - Madigan (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Madigan Army Medical Center in Tacoma, Washington. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 660 NEURL 661 P-Introduction to Neurology - Tacoma/Puyallup Multicare (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Neurology and Neurosurgery Associates in Tacoma and Puyallup, Washington. Students spend time at both clinics. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 661 NEURL 662 P-Introduction to Neurology - Group Health, Tacoma (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Group Health Tacoma Medical Center in Tacoma, Washington. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 662 NEURL 663 P-Introduction to Neurology - Group Health, Eastside (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Group Health Eastside Specialty Center in Redmond, Washington. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 663 NEURL 664 P-Introduction to Neurology - Burien (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at South Seattle Neurology Associates in Burien. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 664 NEURL 665 P-Introduction to Neurology- UWMC (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology, at UWMC. For third- or fourth-year students. Prerequisite: medicine, or family medicine, or surgery, or pediatrics. Instructors: Kraus Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 665 NEURL 666 P-Introduction to Neurology - HMC (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Harborview Medical Center in Seattle, Washington. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 666 NEURL 667 P-Introduction to Neurology - VA (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at the VA Medical Center in Seattle, Washington. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 667 NEURL 668 P-Introduction to Neurology - Northwest Hospital (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Northwest Hospital in Seattle, Washington. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 668 NEURL 669 P-Introduction to Neurology - Virginia Mason (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Virginia Mason Medical Center in Seattle, Washington. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 669 NEURL 670 P-Introduction to Neurology - Minor and James (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Minor and James Medical in Seattle, Washington. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 670 NEURL 671 P-Introduction to Neurology - Swedish (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Swedish Medical Center l in Seattle, Washington. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 671 NEURL 672 P-Introduction to Neurology - Group Health, Seattle (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Group Health Capitol Hill Campus in Seattle, Washington. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 672 NEURL 673 P-Introduction to Neurology - Renton, Valley Medical Center (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology in Renton, WA. For third- or fourth-year students. Prerequisite: medicine, or family medicine, or surgery, or pediatrics. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 673 NEURL 674 P-Introduction to Neurology- Bellingham (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology at Peace Health in Bellingham, Washington. Prerequisite: Completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery or pediatrics. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 674 NEURL 675 P-Introduction to Neurology- Vancouver (8) Provides the medical student with a general understanding of basic clinical neurology in Vancouver, Washington. For third- or fourth-year students. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 675 NEURL 681 P-Seizure Clinic Clerkship (2.5) Evaluation and follow-up of patients with seizure disorders. Limited contact with inpatients. Prerequisite: MED 665 and permission of instructor. Instructors: A. Wilensky Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 681 NEURL 685 Epilepsy and Clinical Electroencephalography (4/8, max. 8) Miller Introduction into epilepsy and the use and interpretation of the electroencephalogram and other clinical studies used to assess it, under the direct supervision of several of the faculty epileptologists and clinical neurophysiologists. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 685 NEURL 686 P-Clinical Neurology (8) Swanson Clerkship including both inpatient and outpatient experiences and didactic sessions on neurological subjects. Student assigned to one of the affiliated hospitals and supervised by neurology residents and full-time staff. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 686 NEURL 687 Advanced Clerkship in Child Neurology (4, max. 8) Advanced course in neurology dealing with neurological disease in children. Supervision by child neurology residents and attending. Prerequisite: NEURL 665, third- and fourth-year medical students. (Limit: one student.) Instructors: Gospe Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 687 NEURL 688 Elective Clerkship in Child Neurology (8) Fundamentals of the neurological history and exam for children. As part of a team at Seattle Children's Hospital, students have opportunity for both outpatient and inpatient experiences. Prerequisite: completion of one required clerkship in medicine, family medicine, surgery, or pediatrics. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 688 NEURL 697 Neurology Away Elective (*, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships may be available at institutions outside the WWAMI region. Students obtain special assignment form from the dean's office at least one month prior to preregistration. Prerequisite. permission of department adviser. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 697 NEURL 699 WWAMI Neurology Special Assignment Elective (4/8, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships may be available at institutions other than the University of Washington located within the WWAMI region. Prerequisite. permission of adviser. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NEURL 699 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022