Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Counseling Center Menu COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health Baylor>Counseling Center>About Us>Confidentiality Confidentiality Some students may feel hesitant to seek our services with the concern that parents, teachers or administrators at Baylor would have access, this is not the case. All records are confidential and they are NOT part of your academic or administrative records. Your records and personal history are available to no one, this includes parents, family, police, faculty or administration unless you provide written consent. No information about your counseling will be released to anyone without your authorization, except under the following circumstances: If referred by someone else, we will confirm attendance at your first session for the referral source. No further information will be provided to them without your written permission. Information released to other professionals involved in treatment. Most commonly this would be to other members of the counseling staff at BUCC, our psychiatric consultant (if involved in your treatment), or a Baylor Student Heath Center physician (if assisting in managing your treatment). If you are under 18 years of age, your parents or legal guardian(s) may request access to your records and may authorize their release to other parties. If you are determined to be in imminent danger of harming yourself or someone else. If you disclose abuse or neglect of children, the elderly, or disabled persons. If you disclose sexual misconduct by a therapist. To qualified personnel for certain kinds of program audits or evaluations. To individuals, corporations, or governmental agencies involved in paying or collecting fees for services. This includes insurance companies. Where otherwise legally required. Prior to starting the Initial Assessment step, you will be provided with detailed information regarding counseling services and given an opportunity to ask questions. COUPLE COUNSELING: Records related to couple counseling sessions are maintained in a student's individual record with the identifying information for the spouse or partner removed. Although the information discussed in couple sessions is considered confidential by BUCC staff members, confidentiality by the participating spouse or partner in couple counseling cannot be guaranteed. NOTE: Students should be aware that many states, including Texas, ask about therapy as part of application to the bar. In a few states medical boards request this information as well. Similar information is requested by some religious denominations prior to ordination. Some federal agencies require releasing this information for applicants for sensitive government positions. In the past we have responded to these requests with brief summaries, which have been sufficient. This information is only released with your written consent. The staff adheres to the ethical principles and codes of conduct for psychologists of the American Psychological Association and for counselors of the Texas State Board of Examiners of Professional Counselors. If you have any questions about your rights as they relate to confidentiality, please do not hesitate to contact the Counseling Center and speak with a therapist. About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Visit Us McLane Student Life Center, 2nd Floor 209 Speight Ave Waco, TX 76706 Contact Us 254.710.2467 Counseling_Center@baylor.edu Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Counseling Center Facebook Pinterest Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health