Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Science Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Directory Research Resources News/Events Clemson University Herbarium Welcome to the Clemson University Herbarium! An herbarium — a collection of dried, pressed and documented plant specimens — is an important research tool that can contribute to work in botany, biology, ecology, environmental studies, conservation, and other fields. The Clemson Herbarium is one of the largest collections in the state and serves as a more or less permanent documentation of the flora of South Carolina. First organized over a century ago by a group of Clemson botanists to help them identify plant specimens for the general public, today the herbarium remains an important resource for the study of plants in the southeastern United States. Herbarium Mission Statement The Clemson University Herbarium is dedicated to the acquisition and distribution of information on the taxonomy, biogeography and conservation of native species of the southeastern United States. The herbarium is maintained as a research and educational tool available to Clemson University students, faculty and staff as well as interested individual researchers from throughout the world. Accessing the Collection In summer 2020, we moved into beautiful new space in Long Hall. Please contact the curator, Lorena Endara, if you have any questions or to make an appointment to visit the herbarium cendara@clemson.edu. >> READ MORE about the new home for our collection! The collection is almost entirely digitized and freely available to the public, thanks to funding from the National Science Foundation, through the SERNEC portal. Instructions on the SERNEC portal and how to use it, click the Database link in the left margin. Or search our database via Flora Caroliniana. Herbarium News and Features In spring 2019, Dixie Damrel, former curator of the Herbarium, explored botany, biomes and religious culture accompanying her spouse on a Fulbright Scholarship to Sri Lanka. Read her blog of this adventure! Dixie Damrel was awarded a Fulbright Scholarship to work in Malaysia during Spring 2015. For a blog of this trip click here. Affiliations & Facilities Departmental Research Graduate Faculty Graduate Programs Seminar Series Museum of Natural History Herbarium Contact Us Database History Policies Projects Copyright © 2019 Clemson University Department of Biological Sciences | 132 Long Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 Tel: 864-656-2328 | Email Us