Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> Library Instruction Sessions Library Instruction Sessions Library instructors are available to teach sessions on topic mapping and keyword selection, developing research questions, finding sources, evaluating sources, incorporating sources into their own research, creating citations, and using a variety of research tools and methodologies. To partner with a library instructor to design an instruction session tailored to your course goals either reach out to your subject librarian or fill out our instruction request form. If you would like to give students a holistic experience with conducting research, course-integrated library instruction is an effective way to do so. Library instructors are available to deliver multiple instruction sessions throughout the course of a semester to guide students through all components of research assignments. Contact your subject librarian to discuss the possibility of having library instruction embedded in your course. Learning Goals & Instruction Examples Library instructors strive to craft learning objectives aligned with course research goals and incorporate active learning strategies throughout instruction sessions. Below are some examples of commonly targeted learning objectives and samples of learning activities. Sample Learning Objectives Learners will evaluate information sources for credibility and relevance to their research needs. Learners will identify strategies for efficiently reading academic materials. Learners will demonstrate how to perform advanced searches in library databases to find peer-reviewed material relevant to their research needs. Instruction Examples STEM Session Expectations In order for library instruction to be successful and for learners to fully benefit from the sessions, course instructors must: Submit instruction requests at least two weeks in advance This ensures the availability of a library instructor and provides us with adequate time to design an effective lesson Submit a copy of the course syllabi or the relevant assignment description This guarantees library instructors can better design content and activities aligned with course goals Be present during the library instruction session This helps create an environment where students are actively participating in the learning process Instruction Services Home Asynchronous Resources Library Instruction Sessions Instruction Request Form Course Materials DRS Instruction & Training Special Collections Instruction About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!