Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Meet with a Career Coach Home About Meet with a Career Coach We're on Your Team Our career coaches are here to partner with you on your career journey. We offer several types of coaching services, including drop-in hours, career exploration appointments, and industry-specific appointments. The below tools will help you find the right appointment type for you and inform you how to proceed. We look forward to connecting with you. Handshake How to Connect With a Coach How to Schedule What to Expect Career coaching is available to all undergraduate students and graduate students currently enrolled in degree-granting programs within MCAS, CSON, LSOEHD, WCAS, and STM, as well as alumni within five years of graduation. We currently do not serve students in exclusively online programs. The information below will help you find the right appointment type to meet your goals. Career Exploration One-on-one discussions with a career exploration coach that can help you get started and gain clarity on your career direction. Ideal for: Getting started with the Career Center Choosing a major Identifying career fields of interest Narrowing down career options To schedule: Use your Handshake account to schedule a meeting with one of our career coaches. Tips For Your Appointment Career Cluster One-on-one discussions with an industry-specialist coach to help you launch a job/internship/graduate school search. Ideal for: Strategizing a job/internship search Preparing for graduate school Preparing for a behavioral interview Evaluating an offer To schedule: Use your Handshake account to schedule a meeting with one of our career coaches. Tips For Your Appointment Drop-In Hours 15-minute one-on-one, first-come, first-serve sessions designed to help you with a quick question, resume review, or more. Ideal for: Resume/cover letter critiques LinkedIn profile reviews Referrals to our career assessments Quick guidance To schedule: Due to renovations, appointments will be required during the Summer of 2022. Please visit Calendly to schedule an appointment. View our Hours For Appointments Use your Handshake account to schedule an exploration or career cluster appointment with a career coach. We offer both virtual and in-person appointments. To schedule: Log in to your Handshake account. Select "Career Center" and then "Appointments" Click the "Schedule a New Appointment" button. Choose the appropriate category from the list. We offer appointments in all of our career clusters. Select the type of appointment from the list. Select a time that works for your schedule. Select the appointment medium (Virtual or In-Person) and fill out the required fields. Tips For Your Appointment For Drop-In Hours Due to renovations, appointments will be required during the Summer of 2022. Please visit Calendly to schedule an appointment. Summer 2022 drop-in hours: Monday–Thursday 12:00–4:00 p.m. Friday 12:00–3:00 p.m. Career Center Visit Our Office Upon conclusion of a career coaching discussion, you will feel you have made progress in addressing your current career questions and be able to: Identify 1-3 next steps in their career discernment and planning. In addition, depending on the content of your career coaching discussion, you may be able to: Describe 1-3 resources or strategies you can use to explore career fields. Identify 1-3 skills you hope to incorporate into your career paths that align with the skills employers are seeking in recent college graduates. Create a plan to develop skills and competencies required for a particular field of interest. Connect the skills, interests, and values you are gaining at Boston College to specific career opportunities of interest. Create application materials such as resumes, cover letters, LinkedIn profiles, and personal statements that articulate your experiences, skills, interests, and values. Verbally articulate how your experiences, skills, interests, and values relate to opportunities through networking conversations and/or interviews. Identify 1-3 resources to help you find specific jobs, internships, graduate school, or other career opportunities. Articulate at least one tip or strategy for communicating effectively with alumni and professionals. Meet Our Career Coaches Salvatore Cipriano Government, Law, and Public Policy Coach Morenike Eastman Business, Consulting, and Finance Coach Hannah Fatemi Career Exploration Coach Rachel Greenberg Director, Career Education and Strategy Philip Guarino Business, Consulting, and Finance Coach Peter Hunt Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Coach Salome Miclette Communication, Arts, and Media Coach Kayla Pelland Science, Technology, and Engineering Coach Tara Raposa Career Exploration Coach Jonathan Rosenthal Healthcare and Nursing Julianne Smith Career Exploration Coach Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College