Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Professional Education Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Through transformative adult learning, we elevate student learning. More than 100 faculty-led programs offered on-campus and online. Explore All Programs Early Childhood Programs Designed to support the learning and development of early childhood professionals working in diverse settings. Explore Programs K-12 Programs A robust portfolio serving teachers, school leaders, district administrators, and other education professionals. Explore Programs Higher Education Programs Leadership and career development for college and university administrators. Explore Programs Online Programs From short workshops to in-depth courses to comprehensive certificate programs, access HGSE ideas from anywhere in the world. Learn more Upcoming Programs Program Portfolio Who Should Attend Faculty Chair(s) Certificate in Early Education Leadership (CEEL) 6/6/22 - 6/24/22 Early Childhood Early childhood directors, leaders, and coaches and state leaders and administrators Nonie K. Lesaux, Stephanie M. Jones School Turnaround Leaders 6/6/22 - 6/10/22 K-12 Educators and teams responsible for leading or overseeing school turnaround efforts Katherine K. Merseth Management Development Program (MDP) 6/12/22 - 6/17/22 Higher Education College and university administrators early in their careers responsible for the strategic direction, administrative management, and local leadership of their respective departments and units. Francesca Purcell, Eduardo Contreras Certificate in School Management and Leadership (CSML) 6/15/22 - 7/13/22 7/20/22 - 8/17/22 K-12 Aspiring, early career, and experienced school leaders Mary Grassa O'Neill, Monique Burns Thompson, Allen Grossman Don't see what you're looking for? Explore Programs By the Numbers 18,000+ Participants a Year 100+ Program Offerings 66 Harvard Faculty 118 Countries Represented Our Faculty Each program is led by HGSE faculty, demonstrating their commitment to making an impact on the practice of education professionals and the lives and learning of students. Kathryn Parker Boudett Lecturer on education at HGSE, faculty chair of the Data Wise Leadership Institute: January and Data Wise Coach Certification, and the faculty co-chair of the Data Wise Leadership Institute: June, Data Wise Leadership Institute: Online, and Data Wise in Action Program. Judith Block McLaughlin Senior lecturer on education at HGSE and faculty director of the Higher Education master’s program at HGSE. McLaughlin is faculty chair of the Harvard Seminar for New Presidents and Harvard Seminar for Presidential Leadership. James Honan Senior lecturer on education at HGSE and faculty co-chair of the Institute for Educational Management (IEM) and Crisis Leadership in Higher Education. Karen Mapp Senior lecturer on education and faculty director of the Education Policy and Management master’s program at HGSE. Mapp is the faculty chair of Family Engagement in Education. In this section Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Find a Program Connect with Professional Education Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. News and Announcements See All News November 13 Leading for Inclusive Education September 20 A Discussion with “We Love Reading” Founder, Dr. Rana Dajani February 15 HGSE and HBS Partner on New Certificate Program See All News Professional Education Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Connect With Us hgse_profed ProfessionalEducationHGSE LinkedIn “In high-poverty schools that were remote for more than half of 2021, the loss was about half of a school year’s wo… https://t.co/2F2Onsda68 May 19 After the intense pressures of COVID, more than a quarter of superintendents say they plan to resign. A veteran sup… https://t.co/Kr8r2NB2XP May 13 Learn more about HGSE Professional Education offerings Sign up to receive updates Professional Education Harvard Graduate School of Education 13 Appian Way, Longfellow Hall, Fifth Floor Cambridge, MA 02138 ppe@gse.harvard.edu Domestic: 800-545-1849 International: +01-617-496-9139 Fax: 617-496-8051 Connect with Professional Education Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Find a Program Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice