Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Mathematical Economics Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Mathematical Economics Major Apply Visit Request More Info Mathematical Economics Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Mathematical Economics Learn to think critically and logically about the economy with the interdisciplinary Bachelor of Arts in Mathematical Economics, offered in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts and College of Science and Technology. This 123-credit undergraduate degree emphasizes mathematical approaches to economic theories and problem-solving. Graduates will be prepared for graduate study in economics, as well as a broad spectrum of careers in business, economic consulting and government. The Mathematical Economics Major’s innovative curriculum focuses on the mathematical tools required for a critical, deep mastery of economics. Through the coursework, you’ll master basic concepts and models in econometrics, macroeconomics and microeconomics, and mathematical economics. You’ll also learn skills that are particularly relevant in future career opportunities, including abstract reasoning skills for choosing efficiently in coordination with others, and orderly thought processes to solve issues that arise when making choices. This program is especially recommended for those students who intend to pursue graduate studies in economics. Economic Decision-making Economics has progressed in the last several decades by making extensive use of mathematical techniques. As a result, students who wish to pursue graduate study in accounting, finance and other disciplines for which mathematics is applied, as well as those students prepared to enter the business world upon graduation, benefit from a thorough grounding in both economics and mathematics. In business, many companies apply mathematical economics to solve problems. That means they must have the right people at managerial levels with the skills required to solve these problems, increasing a company’s revenues or decreasing its cost. Those skills typically combine economic reasoning and mathematical techniques. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration MBA* Business Analytics MS* Economics MA Economics PhD Mathematics MS** Mathematics PhD** Related Graduate Certificates Business Analytics** *Fox School of Business **College of Science and Technology Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Dimitrios Diamantaras is the advisor in the Department of Economics. Phone: 215-204-8169 Email: dimitrios.diamantaras@temple.edu Program Contact For questions regarding the Mathematical Economics Major, contact the following staff member. Belinda Wilson is an administrator and the program contact for the Mathematical Economics Major. Phone: 215-204-0472 Email: bwilson@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Economics Department. William Stull is the chair of the Economics Department. Email: stull@temple.edu Moritz Ritter is the director of undergraduate studies. Phone: 215-204-5029 Email: moritz.ritter@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Mathematical Economics Major coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple through student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. The Temple Economics Society is a student professional organization dedicated to connecting students interested in economics with employers and industry professionals. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your Temple experience by immersing yourself in new cultures, histories and perspectives in countries such as China, Germany, Ghana and Italy, as well as at Temple’s Rome and Tokyo campuses. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-MECN-BA Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Mathematical Economics Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info