Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Academics & Research Distinctive Opportunities Teaching Fellowships for Advanced Students Brown/Wheaton Faculty Fellows Program Graduate School Skip to Navigation Brown/Wheaton Faculty Fellows Program The Brown/Wheaton Faculty Fellows Program, a collaborative program between Brown University and Wheaton College, annually offers outstanding advanced graduate students the opportunity to experience faculty life firsthand at a liberal arts college. By teaching a one-semester course at Wheaton and participating in the intellectual life of the college, Brown/Wheaton Faculty Fellows gain a better understanding of the responsibilities and challenges of academic life at a four-year, liberal arts college, which can be markedly different than those at a research institution such as Brown. Wheaton College is a selective, coeducational liberal arts college of 120 full-time faculty and 1,550 students. Located in nearby Norton, Massachusetts, Wheaton was founded in 1834 as a women's institution and became coeducational in 1987. As with most liberal arts colleges, Wheaton 's educational philosophy is predicated on a close, collaborative relationship between students and faculty. A low student-faculty ratio and small class size (between fifteen and twenty) means students know their professors as scholar-teachers, advisors, mentors, and supervisors of research projects. Wheaton offers a curriculum leading to a degree in Bachelor of Arts in more than forty-four majors and sixty minors. Students choose from over 1,525 courses in subjects from physics to philosophy, political science to computer science, art history to theater, English to economics. The Wheaton curriculum demonstrates the college's commitment to the traditional breadth and depth of the liberal arts and sciences while promoting connections across established academic divisions. Its new curriculum transformation initiative, the Infusion Project, integrates critical studies on race/ethnicity and its intersections with gender, sexuality, class, religion and technology in the US and globally in all disciplines. Qualifications Brown doctoral students who have completed their coursework, advanced to candidacy (are at the dissertation-writing stage), have at least two semesters of teaching experience, and are currently in their third, fourth or fifth year of studies are eligible to apply for the Brown/Wheaton Faculty Fellows Program. See application instructions below, but note that Humanities and Social Sciences students currently in their fifth year of study (i.e., rising sixth-year students) will need to submit a Dissertation Completion Proposal (DCP) that mentions their intention to apply to this program. Brown/Wheaton Faculty Fellows receive stipend support. Successful candidates will have a strong commitment to teaching, as demonstrated by their participation in departmental teaching seminars and/or in the Sheridan Center's teaching certificate programs. The ideal applicants will have completed the Sheridan Center's Certificate I program. To Apply For 2022-2023, up to two doctoral students will be selected as Brown/Wheaton Faculty Fellows. Please see the Focus areas for 2022-2023. Applications will be due June 1 by 5 pm. All applicants, be they rising fourth-, fifth- or sixth-year students, must submit a cover letter and CV to Associate Dean Vanessa Ryan at [email protected]. (Submit these two documents via email as one pdf file.) Applicants’ cover letters should describe their credentials and teaching experience and their research agendas and intellectual interests. The letter, which should not exceed two pages, should include a description of the applicant’s teaching competencies broadly defined as well as a one-paragraph description of a course the applicant proposes to teach at Wheaton. Applicants may propose courses that meet curricular needs identified by Wheaton College departments/programs. In addition, all applicants must furnish to the Graduate School a short message of endorsement of their Director of Graduate Study. This may be in the form of a brief email from the DGS to [email protected] (this is not a full recommendation). Selection Process The Graduate School reviews candidates and forwards the applications with general recommendations to Wheaton. Based on its curricular needs, Wheaton then asks a select group of candidates to interview. Once selected, each Faculty Fellow is assigned a Wheaton mentor and begins the process of refining his or her syllabus to ensure that it promotes student learning in a liberal arts environment. Expectations It is an honor to serve as a Brown/Wheaton Faculty Fellow. Each Faculty Fellow teaches one course and participates fully in the intellectual life of the college community. Faculty Fellows attend department and faculty meetings (as non-voting participants), take part in relevant monthly teaching and learning workshops, and share their ongoing research with Wheaton colleagues through presentations at the Faculty Luncheon Series. Brown/Wheaton Faculty Fellows are assigned a faculty mentor from their home department at Wheaton. Upon selection and before the semester starts, Faculty Fellows meet with their mentors to review the syllabus and assignments and to establish a schedule for regular meetings throughout the term. The mentors serve as sounding boards about the progress of the Fellows' courses, observe their classes and make recommendations, and help acculturate them to the four-year college environment. To assess their teaching, Faculty Fellows use Wheaton's standard course evaluation form at the end of the semester and are observed and given feedback by the department chair or colleague. At the end of each term, Faculty Fellows meet individually with their Wheaton mentors or department chairs to assess their development and performance. All Fellows are required to submit a summary report about their experience in the program to the Graduate School and Sheridan Center at Brown and to Wheaton College. Contacts: M. Gabriela Torres, Associate Provost of Academic Administration and Faculty Affairs, Wheaton College; and Vanessa Ryan, Associate Dean of Student Development, Brown University Graduate School Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Ph.D. Requirements Master's Requirements Fields of Study Post-Baccalaureate Research Education Program (PREP) Fifth-Year Master's Degree Concurrent Bachelor's/Master's Degrees Distinctive Opportunities Open Graduate Education Travel Research Funding Deans’ Faculty Fellows Program Interdisciplinary Opportunities Teaching Fellowships for Advanced Students Brown Executive Scholars Training Program Effective Performance Workshops Doctoral Certificates Graduate Advising and Mentoring Rules & Regulations Course Registration Research Professional Development Training Opportunities, Events & Tools Partnerships & Exchanges Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Current and former Brown/Wheaton Faculty Fellows Departments & Courses/Areas of Focus for 2022-2023 Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants