Skip to content Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Find People Events Global Health Donate Search About Us About Us Explore VP&S Message from the Dean VP&S History Celebrating the Leadership of Lee Goldman Facts & Statistics 2021 State of the School Explore VP&S Leadership and Administration Campus Resources and Facilities Events Community Programs Contact Us Education Education Academic Programs Residencies, Fellowships, and Training Student Resources Office of Innovation in Health Professions Education Academic Programs MD Program MD Dual Degrees and Special Programs Program in Genetic Counseling Programs in Human Nutrition Programs in Occupational Therapy Programs in Physical Therapy PhDs in Biomedical Sciences Additional Master's Degree Programs Additional Educational Opportunities MD Program Join our MD program to become a physician with compassion, a sense of self, and true grit in all medical pursuits. Explore Our Program Research Research Office for Research Areas of Research Research Faculty Honors and Awards For Researchers For Researchers Core and Shared Facilities Research Resources Funding Areas of Research VP&S continues to be a world leader across the entire spectrum of basic science, translational, and clinical research Learn About Our Research Patient Care Departments & Centers Departments & Centers Affiliated Hospitals and Institutions Basic Science Departments Centers and Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Faculty Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Our mission is to provide world-class patient care, foster innovative research, and train the next generation of leaders in medicine. View Clinical Departments and Divisions You are here Home > Research > For Researchers > Research Resources Office for Research Areas of Research Research Faculty Honors and Awards For Researchers Core and Shared Facilities Research Resources Lab Startup Guide Funding Research Resources The VP&S Office for Research manages several guides and resources to assist investigators with the operations of their laboratories. Details about these resouces can be found on the Research Intranet. Available resources include support for: Ultra-Low Temperature (-80 C) Freezers Remote Freezer Monitoring VP&S Research has worked with CUIMC IT and Procurement to provide easy access to a freezer monitoring system for CU researchers at greatly reduced cost. Emergency Backup Freezers CUIMC maintains upright, shelved -80 C freezers that are available for the research community to use during a freezer failure while their lab freezer is being repaired or replaced. High Efficiency Freezers -80 C freezers place large energy and cooling burdens on campus infrastructure. Columbia has obtained discounted pricing for a highly energy-efficient -80 model to enable researchers to reduce their laboratory energy usage and assist our campus sustainability efforts. Computing Resources Columbia University provides access to a number of software licenses for free or at a discount for academic research purposes. Campus-Specific Resources Concierge Service The VP&S Office for Research offers this service to investigators who have research-related questions. Our goal is to help facilitate your research through administrative support as well as identifying potential resources and collaborations on campus. Lab Startup Guide To help incoming faculty set up their laboratories and hit the ground running, we have developed a startup guide that outlines the various research administrative offices and resources that are available at VP&S. Equipment Exchange (Mao's List) Find, trade, or reuse laboratory equipment and furniture. Mao's list, named in honor of Dr. Mao, Assistant Dean for Graduate Affairs, is intended for the trade and reuse of working laboratory equipment and furniture owned by Columbia University departments, offices, and laboratories. Grant Help The VP&S Office for Research provides several services and templates to assist researchers in the development and submission of grant proposals. Access Research Resources on the Research Intranet Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About VP&S Careers Education Research Administration Inside VP&S Columbia University Irving Medical Center Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Back to top