Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Education Academics Forward Arrow Academics Undergraduate Forward Arrow Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Back Arrow Back Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs Forward Arrow Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Back Arrow Back Doctoral Programs Forward Arrow Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Back Arrow Back Programs Forward Arrow Programs Educational Programs Forward Arrow Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Back Arrow Back Labs Forward Arrow Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Back Arrow Back Centers and Institutes Forward Arrow Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Student Advising Forward Arrow Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Back Arrow Back Field Experience Forward Arrow Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Back Arrow Back Student Opportunities Forward Arrow Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Back Arrow Back Student Resources Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About From the Dean Administration Departments Forward Arrow Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Directory Forward Arrow Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Alumni and Friends Forward Arrow Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Back Arrow Back Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting Forward Arrow Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Back Arrow Back Employee Services Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close College of Education Academics show submenu for Academics Undergraduate show submenu for Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs show submenu for Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Doctoral Programs show submenu for Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Research show submenu for Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Programs show submenu for Programs Educational Programs show submenu for Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Labs show submenu for Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Centers and Institutes show submenu for Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Students show submenu for Students Student Advising show submenu for Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Field Experience show submenu for Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Student Opportunities show submenu for Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Student Resources About show submenu for About From the Dean show submenu for From the Dean Dean's Leadership Institute Administration Departments show submenu for Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Directory show submenu for Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Alumni and Friends show submenu for Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting show submenu for Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Employee Services Clemson Home College of Education Academics Doctoral Programs Current: Education Systems Improvement Science Education Systems Improvement Science, EdD The Doctor of Education (EdD) is an applied professional doctoral degree designed for certified PK-12 practitioners who have previously completed an Education Specialist (EdS) degree or equivalent. In the EdD Program, students develop the theoretical and practical knowledge base and research skills needed to be effective educational leaders who design innovative solutions that positively impact local students, families, and communities in South Carolina and beyond. Students complete a Dissertation in Practice (DiP) focused on systemic, complex challenges facing educators related to race, rurality, and poverty in which they identify systems-level opportunities to apply improvement science for change and innovation. Program Handbook Program Brochure Apply Now Faculty Directory Overview This Doctor of Education (EdD) is offered in partnership with The Citadel, Coastal Carolina University, and Winthrop University. Clemson is also a member of the Carnegie Project on the Education Doctorate (CPED), a consortium of more than 100 colleges and schools of education in the United States and Canada. Clemson’s Program is based on the CPED Framework©, which includes guiding principles and a defined set of design concepts for the professional doctorate in education. Designed for working professionals, the Program helps students become scholarly practitioners while building a strong background in leadership, ethics, diversity, research, and educational improvement science. Improvement Science is a method of inquiry that helps scholarly practitioners define complex problems, implement changes, and determine whether the changes result in improvement. The Program includes field embedded research with the goal of moving theory into practice to improve educational systems and outcomes. Admission Requirements Admission to the Program The Education Systems Improvement Science doctoral program admits students for a summer entrance term. Only complete applications are considered for admission. Application Deadlines January 15, priority deadline – Applications will be reviewed for early decision March 1, traditional deadline Application Requirements To be considered for the Program, applicants must: Have a bachelor’s degree with a minimum GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale Have a specialist’s (EdS) degree or equivalent with a minimum GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale Complete any missing prerequisite requirements following a review of EdS transcript, if from a non-partner institution Submit an online Graduate School application which requires: Unofficial transcripts (official transcript(s) will be required if accepted into the Program) Competitive, official GRE (Graduate Record Exam) scores taken within the last five years OR any one of the following: Equivalent academic admissions exam (e.g., GMAT, LSAT, MCAT) – taken within the past five years A GPA of at least 3.0 in the most recent graduate degree At least five years of classroom experience AND at least two years in a leadership position (e.g., building or district level) A current resume Three recommendation forms Recommendation forms are emailed directly to recommenders via the online application process Two may be professional recommendations One must be from someone who can speak on academic achievement. This can be from a partner institution (The Citadel, Coastal Carolina University, or Winthrop University) or other accredited institution. A statement of research interest/problem of practice to be examined in the Program Official TOEFL/IELTS scores for international students. Additional information concerning supporting materials Program Requirements Education Systems Improvement Science EdD (42 credit hour minimum) Core Courses (6 credit hours): EDIS 9100 – Models for Whole School Reform EDIS 9200 – Systemic Educational Reform Cognate Courses (minimum 6 credit hours): As a part of the program of study, each student must complete six graduate credit hours approved by the student’s doctoral advisory committee. The cognate is focused on issues contextually important to practitioners in South Carolina. The cognate should support the student’s professional goals and research program. As the EDIS program grows, additional courses may be developed. EDIS 9300 – Rural Education EDL 8850 – Diversity and School Communities ED 8540 – International Perspectives on Poverty and the Schools P-12 Research Courses (12 credit hours): EDL 9800 – Practical Systems Improvement Science Investigations I EDL 9800 – Practical Systems Improvement Science Investigations II EDIS 9360 – Advanced Program Evaluation EDIS 9890 – Advanced Doctoral Seminar Dissertation Course: (minimum 18 credit hours): EDIS 9910 – Doctoral Dissertation Research Frequently Asked Questions Program Information What is an educational doctorate (EdD)? The Doctor of Education (EdD) is an applied professional doctorate designed with full-time PK-12 practitioners (who have an EdS or equivalent) in mind. The EdD Program prepares scholarly practitioners to solve complex problems of practice through the development of theoretical and practical knowledge as well as research skills. The Program has three themes including race, place (rurality), and poverty. Students build a strong background in leadership, ethics, diversity, research, and educational improvement science. Improvement Science is a method of inquiry that helps scholarly practitioners define problems, implement changes, and determine whether the changes result in improvement. What is the difference between an EdD and a PhD? The EdD is designed for PK-12 practitioners currently serving in school and district leadership roles. Through their coursework and as part of their dissertation in practice, students examine and work to solve educational problems, most often identified in their school or district setting. In this way, earning an EdD is intended to help prepare students to be educational leaders who will act as change agents in South Carolina and beyond. The PhD is designed to prepare education scholars, practitioners, and leaders across P-20 contexts who often work in school districts, community and state agencies, and institutions of higher education providing research-based educational policies and services. What is the format of the EdD Program? The EdD Program is delivered in a cohort format with online courses (a blend of synchronous and asynchronous) and face-to-face, in-person opportunities which include orientation and an annual summer summit as well as degree milestones (e.g., Comprehensive Qualifying Exam, Dissertation Proposal Defense, and Dissertation Defense). Do the students in the EdD Program typically keep their full-time jobs? Yes, students are typically employed full time in educational roles in PK-12 school districts. Students are not expected to leave their full-time jobs, as this is a degree for practitioners. What is the average time it takes someone to earn their EdD? Students begin and complete their coursework in a cohort model. All cohorts begin in the summer semester. Students complete four semesters of coursework and at least three semesters of dissertations credit hours as part of their program of study. The EdD Program in its entirety can be completed in just approximately two years and three months, at a minimum. Do you offer Graduate Assistantships with stipend and tuition waiver? No, Graduate Assistantships are generally not available for EdD students as they are practitioners who are employed full-time in PK-12 school districts. Admissions Requirements Is there a minimum number of years of classroom or educational leadership experience required? There is not a required minimum number of years of experience in a teaching or leadership role, but an Educational Specialist (EdS) degree (or equivalent) is required (minimum of a 3.0 GPA). How are applications evaluated? All applications are reviewed holistically by an Admissions Committee comprised of program faculty. Applicants are encouraged to include information in their application about their professional background (e.g., leadership experience, especially in high-need schools and/or serving diverse populations), academic preparation, and research interests (e.g., alignment with program themes of race, rurality, poverty, and improvement science). Application Process How do I apply to the EdD Program? All applications are submitted online at the Graduate School’s website: https://www.clemson.edu/graduate/admissions/apply/ How many applicants are typically admitted to the EdD Program each year? The number of applicants and admitted students varies each year; there is no pre-determined number or percentage for admittance to the program. The number of applicants accepted into the program depends on the qualifications of the individual applicants. I submitted my application in advance of the January 15th priority application deadline and was wondering will the decision be made in advance of the March 1st traditional application deadline? All completed applications submitted by the January 15th priority application deadline will be collectively reviewed by the Admissions Committee, and notifications will generally be sent by the Graduate School by theend of February. Completed applications submitted after the priority application deadline but by the March 1st traditional application deadline will be collectively reviewed by the Admissions Committee, and notifications will generally be sent by the Graduate School no later than the end of April. If an application is incomplete (e.g., one or more documents such as reference letter[s], transcript[s], etc.) have not been received by the Graduate School), applicants will not receive notification until after all documents have been received. Financial Information Tuition and Fees Explore information on tuition and fees using the Student Financial Services’ tuition and fee calculator (be sure to choose the ‘graduate’ tab at the top of the page). Financial Aid For information regarding Financial Aid, please contact the office of Student Financial Aid. Information Sessions & Calendar Review our College of Education Graduate Calendar to view upcoming events and information sessions. Graduate Event Calendar Find Out More For more information regarding the program or questions associated with applying to this program, please contact: Stephanie M. Henry, Student Services Program Coordinator, shenry3@clemson.edu, 864-656-0416 Dr. Noelle Paufler, Program Coordinator, npaufle@clemson.edu, 864-656-4777 Department of Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Copyright © Clemson University Department of Educational and Organizational Leadership Development | 330 Gantt Circle 864-656-3484 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson