Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Department of Political Science Menu Search TTU Political Science Faculty Katharine Hayhoe, Ph.D. Professor Political Science Phone: (806) 834-8665 Office: Holden Hall 113 For all media and scheduling inquiries, please contact Laura James For more information visit: Web Site Katharine Hayhoe is a Paul Whitfield Horn Distinguished Professor and Endowed Chair in Public Policy and Public Law in the Public Administration program of the Department of Political Science at Texas Tech University. She is also the Chief Scientist for the global conservation organization, The Nature Conservancy. She has a B.Sc. in physics and astronomy from the University of Toronto and an M.S. and Ph.D. in atmospheric science from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, and has been awarded honorary doctorates from Colgate University, Trinity College, and Victoria College at the University of Toronto. Professor Hayhoe's research focuses on developing and applying high-resolution climate projections to evaluate the future impacts of climate change on human society and the natural environment. She has published over 125 peer-reviewed abstracts and publications and co-authored Downscaling Techniques for High-Resolution Climate Projections: From Global Change to Local Impacts (Cambridge University Press, 2021), and served as lead author on key reports for the U.S. Global Change Research Program and the National Academy of Sciences, including the Second, Third and Fourth U.S. National Climate Assessments. Her TED talk, The Most Important Thing You Can Do About Climate Change: Talk About It has received nearly 4 million views and her new book, Saving Us: A Climate Scientist's Case for Hope and Healing in a Divided World was released in September 2021. She is an Oxfam Sister of the Planet and currently serves on a number of advisory boards including the science advisory board for the Environmental Resilience Institute at Indiana University, the scientific research advisory council for Engie, the international advisory board for the Faraday Institute for Science and Religion, the sustainability advisory board for Netflix, and the advisory board for the Smithsonian Natural History Museum. In 2019, Dr. Hayhoe was named to Foreign Policy's list of 100 Global Thinkers for the second time and received the United Nations Environment Programme's flagship award, being named Champion of the Earth in the category of Science and Innovation. . Media PBS Digital Series, Global Weirding TEDx talk: What if Climate Change is Real? Bill Moyers: Climate Change Faith and Fact. AAAS What We Know: Dr. Katharine Hayhoe Youtube channel:Presentation to a special Session of the Austin, Texas City Council on April 27, 2015 Department of Political Science Like Department of Political Science on FacebookLike Department of Political Science on Facebook Follow Department of Political Science on twitterFollow Department of Political Science on twitter Address Dept. of Political Science, Texas Tech University, 113 Holden Hall, Boston & Akron Streets, Lubbock, TX 79409-1015 Fax: 806.742.0850 Phone 806.742.3121 Email pols.webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversitySep 26, 2021 3:36 PM Department of Political Science About Department of Political Science About Back Events Strategic Plan People Department of Political Science About People Back Faculty Staff Hire a TTU PhD Faculty Research Job Postings Department of Political Science About Job Postings Back Please check back later as new jobs are posted The Center for Public Service Alumni Department of Political Science About Alumni Back Distinguished Alumni Stay in Touch POLS Worldwide eLearning Department of Political Science POLS Worldwide eLearning Back eLearning Faculty/Staff Online Courses Regional Site Program Advising & Contact Information For Students Department of Political Science For Students Back Prospective Students Department of Political Science For Students Prospective Students Back Advising Scholarships Graduate Undergraduate TTU Undergraduate Moot Court Team Current Undergraduate Students Department of Political Science For Students Current Undergraduate Students Back Advising FAQs Scholarships Major / Minor Requirements Courses Important Dates Student Resources Red Raider Orientation Form Current Graduate Students Department of Political Science For Students Current Graduate Students Back Advising Current Ph.D Students Hire a TTU PhD Placements Courses Program Information Important Dates Student Resources Financial Aid Pi Sigma Alpha Department of Political Science For Students Pi Sigma Alpha Back About Membership Program & Awards Global Studies Public Administration Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index