Alert message This dialog contains an alert message for the Penn State community. For the latest COVID-19 news and information, visit Penn State's Coronavirus Information website. Continue to follow CDC-recommended health/safety precautions, contact your healthcare provider if you have questions or feel ill, and review information from state and national health authorities. Close Coronavirus Updates Skip to main content This is Penn State Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Leadership History Facts and Rankings Our Impact Health Care Featured Impact: Beyond Limitations Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools Online Degrees Global Education Academic Colleges Campus Locations Penn State among top 100 universities in the world in 2022 QS Rankings Admission Undergraduate Graduate Online Professional Schools Continuing Education Featured Impact: First To Inspire Tuition and Aid Research Athletics News Latest News Academics Our Research Campus Life Athletics Administration Arts and Entertainment College and Campus News Surviving in Place: Environmental archeology in Madagascar Hotline Give Apply More Full site navigation menu This dialog contains the full navigation menu for www.psu.edu. Search Term Hotline Give Apply This is Penn State Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Leadership History Facts and Rankings Our Impact Health Care Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools Online Degrees Global Education Academic Colleges Campus Locations Admission Undergraduate Graduate Online Professional Schools Continuing Education Tuition and Aid Research Athletics News Latest News Academics Our Research Campus Life Athletics Administration Arts and Entertainment Find Information For: Visitors Prospective Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Business and Industry Veterans and Military Alumni Media Helpful Links Find a Campus Maps Careers Directory Academic Calendar Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Close Undergraduate Admission Apply Tuition and Financial Aid Colleges Campuses Requirements Run the Future Get started on running your future by joining a globally recognized university that ranks among the nation’s best for setting graduates up for greater career potential. Pursue your individual passions within a culture that takes pride in shared success and an academic community that will connect you to the research and expertise you need. And when you’re ready to graduate, join a network of Penn Staters that spans the globe, willing to open doors to a lifetime of opportunity. #5 Ranking for best-trained graduates (tied with MIT). 22% Of students are first-generation college students. 95%+ Of PA residents live within thirty miles of a Penn State campus. Start Planning Your Penn State Experience Your Penn State education reaches far beyond the classroom—find your niche with clubs and organizations, launch your business idea, or participate in the largest student-run philanthropy in the world. Keep exploring the experiences and opportunities you’ll find as part of the Penn State community. Explore Student Life Discover the opportunities and resources you’ll have access to as a Penn State student. Explore Visit a Campus Experience what each campus has to offer by scheduling an in-person or virtual visit today. Visit How to Apply Take the next steps toward becoming a Penn Stater and start your application. Apply Resources For First-Year Students Explore International Students Explore Transfer Students Explore Adult Students Explore Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Get News By Email // Discover News Explore News Careers Facts and Rankings Colleges Campuses Health Care Research Impact Resources Prospective Students Current Students International Students Business and Industry Veterans and Military Visitors Faculty and Staff Alumni Media Popular Links Maps Directory Libraries Academic Calendar LionPATH Stay Connected Emails / Headlines Emergency Notifications Penn State Go Strategic Communications Report Misconduct Police 201 Old Main, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802 814-865-4700 Contact Us Privacy Statement Non Discrimination Accessibility Equal Opportunity Legal Statements The Pennsylvania State University © 2022