Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Leadership Offices History Mission Notable Alumni Commitments Financial Information Contact Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics University of Notre Dame Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics Home Contact Search Menu Commitments Home › About › Commitments Diversity Our commitment to diversity and inclusion arises from our aspirations about the community we want to be, the educational environment we hope to provide our students, and the moral character they will develop during their time with us. It goes to the heart of our mission, to who we are and to what we want to be. Our principles of diversity and inclusion are: Respect the dignity of every person; Build a Notre Dame community in which all can flourish; Live in solidarity with all, particularly the most vulnerable. Read more about Diversity Sustainability The pursuit of sustainability is directly related to the Catholic Mission of the University. In his encyclical Laudato Si’, Pope Francis reminds us that our common home is like a sister with whom we share our life and a beautiful mother who opens her arms to embrace us. He urgently appeals for a new dialogue about how we are shaping the future of our planet. “We need a conversation which includes everyone, since the environmental challenge we are undergoing, and its human roots, concern and affect us all.” The Office of Sustainability acknowledges this need and actively works to weave faith into its programs. Notre Dame has made several commitments related to sustainability, including discontinuing the use of coal and cutting the University's carbon footprint in half. Read more about Sustainability Accessibility The University of Notre Dame is committed to providing reliable information and services to allow current and future members of the community the opportunity to experience all Notre Dame has to offer. For information regarding student accommodations, contact Disability Services. If you have questions or suggestions to improve accessibility on any Notre Dame website, contact webgroup@nd.edu. For information on web accessibility, visit the University web accessibility initiative website. Additional Accessibility Services and Resources HR Accessibility Accommodations Accessible Parking Leadership Offices History Mission Notable Alumni Commitments Financial Information Contact Quick Links Bookstore Employment Tour InsideND Academic Calendar University of Notre Dame Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA 41.703234 -86.238985 Phone: (574) 631-5000 Contact Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Emergency Closed Captioning Notice of Non-Discrimination Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit