Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Coronavirus COVID-19 right arrow down arrow COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics right arrow down arrow Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life right arrow down arrow Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine right arrow down arrow Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures right arrow down arrow Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Home » Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) » Campus Life » Health & Wellness Set Navigation title in component COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Health & Wellness Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) CAPS is open and providing services via phone as we continue to support all students in the Bearcat community during this difficult time. Students and members of the UC community concerned about students have access to mental health crisis care and consultation 24 hours a day 7 days a week. If you have an in-person appointment scheduled at CAPS, a member of CAPS clinical staff will contact you within the next few days to confirm that your original scheduled appointment time still works for you. During your scheduled appointment time, a CAPS therapist will call you to discuss your current needs for support. If you'd like to connect with CAPS for the first time, , call 513-556-0648 Monday through Friday between the hours of 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. to schedule a time to speak with a clinician. When you call you’ll be given a couple of options to access support Rapid Access Consultation – If you need to talk with someone about a specific concern you can access a 30-minute single session phone consultation session focused on supporting you with what you need today. Crisis Services - If you are experiencing a mental health crisis, please call our office 24/7 at 513-556-0648. If you call during CAPS business hours, let the operator know that you need to speak with a therapist immediately. If you need crisis support after hours, contact our main number and select “1” to speak with a crisis counselor. Go to the CAPS site to find resources like Therapy Assistance Online (TAO): A free interactive, web-based self-help program that provides online and mobile tools to help you overcome the day to day challenges around stressors like anxiety, depression, or other concerns. You'll also find the Reach Out App, a free app available for smart phones that provides a wealth of information about mental health and suicide prevention for the UC community. Student Wellness Office The Student Wellness Center empowers students to make informed decisions regarding their health and wellness by providing evidence-based education, inclusive resources, and non-judgmental support. We offer an extensive collection of resources and information about various health and wellness topics. Stop by the office for free products or to talk with staff. You also may email wellcntr@ucmail.uc.edu. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top