Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home Welcome New Students! Welcome to Columbia Engineering! Congratulations on your admission to Columbia Engineering! You now have the opportunity to join a School with a rich history and an expanding future. As The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science, we are fortunate and proud to attract students and faculty from diverse backgrounds, from across the country, and from around the world. As a community, we have the privilege to learn from one another, and to study, work, and live together in the dynamic and vibrant city that defines Columbia. It is a great benefit to be able to gather engineers and scientists of so many different backgrounds and perspectives with a commitment to learning, a focus on pushing the frontiers of knowledge and discovery, and a shared passion for translating our work to impact humanity. On November 15th, 1864, the Columbia College School of Mines opened on Madison Avenue, establishing a School within Columbia focused on engineering and applied science. By 1892, nearly half of all mining school graduates in the United States hailed from Columbia. Today, from AI to climate modeling, Columbia Engineering continues to be at the forefront of breakthrough science and technology, building a better future for all of us. Join us in celebrating 157 years of innovation in research and education! New Student Checklist For new students joining Columbia Engineering, The Office of Graduate Student Affairs has organized a comprehensive orientation program and a checklist to support you. MORE Admitted Student Webinars Join us virtually to learn more about the opportunities available to Columbia Engineering graduate students. MORE Applying for your Visa Resources and documents that may be helpful for incoming international students. MORE Campus Resources Information on various resources around the University MORE Connect With Us! Take a moment to connect with Columbia Engineering Graduate Student Affairs! MORE New Student Orientation MORE Housing Information Housing information for new students. MORE International Student Panel Hear from Columbia Engineering International Students! MORE Frequently Asked Questions Please find below a collection of commonly asked questions from new students. We are happy to help you! MORE Program Kick-Offs Each Program or Department has a mandatory kick-off in which you will learn more about your degree program, faculty, meet new classmates and receive advising. This Kick-Off is organized by the leadership of your academic program and is separate from Welcome Day. MORE Next Steps: New Incoming Students Not sure what to do next? For new students joining Columbia Engineering, The Office of Graduate Student Affairs has organized a comprehensive orientation program and a checklist to support you. Start Here Attend an Event Join us virtually to learn more about the opportunities available to Columbia Engineering graduate students. RSVP Now Engineering Welcome Day and Orientation Columbia Engineering Welcome Day will be in mid-August. This day-long Orientation event will introduce you to various resources and opportunities at Columbia and give you the chance to meet your classmates. Additionally, there will be required Professional Development and Leadership programming for M.S. students. In the coming months, as the COVID-19 New York State policies evolve, we will reach out with further specifics on orientation and provide updates. You will also have a mandatory program kick-off in mid-to-late August. Your department will send you details separately and we will send you updated dates and times. Welcome Week Programming There will be several programs after Welcome Day and this time is designed to introduce you to New York City and the Columbia Community. Learn More Graduate Student Affairs Team Meet the Office of Graduate Student Affairs! Connect Now Department Career Placement and Student Affairs Contacts Connect with your Career Placement Officer and Department Student Affairs representative! Connect Now Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University