SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Master of Science in Finance Master of Science in Finance Overview Curriculum Support for Your Success Admissions Overview Curriculum Support for Your Success Admissions Go Beyond Finance in This STEM-Designated Program With an MS in Finance from SMU Cox, you’ll be ready to push ahead in a finance career whether or not you have a undergraduate business degree. This STEM-designated program — a hot ticket for employers — covers everything from financial accounting and statistics to international markets and monetary policy. Get real-world experience in our simulated trading center, complete with Bloomberg terminals, and make professional connections that will last a lifetime. At Cox, you’ll study with professors who don’t just teach — they’re driving the Dallas business boom. Full-time or part-time evening options. Summer Boot Camps to prepare students from all backgrounds CFA preparation course. Contact Us MEET 1:1 WITH ADMISSIONS Request More Information Start Your Application Every aspect of the program was instrumental in landing my first position and preparing me for success. The faculty are always available to answer questions and help expand your network. Cody Conoly Corporate Development Transaction Services, M&A at Accenture, MSF 2016 Find Your Student Club See All Clubs Cox Graduate Finance Club If you’re interested in an investment-related career or corporate finance, this club is for you. Along with students from other MS and MBA programs, you'll get chances to network when you attend speaker panels, visit Dallas firms, join pitch competitions and mix it up at happy hours and crawfish boils. Learn More Operations & Analytics Turn data into a into a decision-making tool that’s moving business in bold new directions. Go beyond the “analytics” buzzword to gain strategic skills that every future business leader needs. Join Cox faculty, our vast alumni network and other professionals as you navigate this fascinating, fast-moving field. Learn More Women in Business One of SMU Cox's largest student organizations, Women in Business helps launch you into a meaningful career as a business leader. You'll find opportunities for mentorship and networking with high-powered women from industries across Dallas, as well as a calendar full of events, from lunch-and-learns with guest speakers to seminars and get-togethers. The club's relationship with the Forté Foundation means you automatically benefit from membership in the national organization. Learn More By the Numbers: The Cox MSF Class of 2022 Class Size 77 Women 27% Average GPA 3.43 Average GMAT 676 International 14% Number of Countries Represented 9 After Cox: Success Stories Romina Meuti, MSF 2013 Transfer Pricing Director, PwC “The Cox network provides excellent opportunities for students and alumni to stay in touch with important business players and to connect with the business world in Dallas.” With a Cox BBA under her belt, Romina Meuti had already launched an international tax consulting career that took her from Dallas to Barcelona and on to Ecuador. But along the way, she realized that her real passion was finance. She returned to Cox to earn her MSF and make the career shift she sought. Finance degree in hand, she's now risen to the director level at consulting giant PwC. Thomas Austin, MSF 2013 Vice president, Bank of America Merrill Lynch How does a liberal arts major pivot to finance? Thomas Austin prepared himself for his MSF studies at the Cox School with the program's Summer Boot Camp, which gave him a grounding in the basics and prepared him for the rigorous MFA curriculum. After mastering the ideas, tools and principles of finance at Cox, he moved into a business analyst role at Deutsche Bank Securities, and then on to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Thomas is now a vice president in the bank's real estate structured finance division. Miaoyu Han, MSF 2016 American Airlines From: Jinan, China Undergraduate: Portland State University “After one year in an investment bank in China, I realized that a bachelor’s degree in finance was not enough and that the finance industry in China was evolving quickly. I decided to go back to school at SMU Cox for an advanced education in finance. I knew this would help me achieve my long-term goal which is to set up a fund to help children in need from China.” SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter