Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Areas Student Orgs Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs MA in SLP AdmissionsCurriculumNon-CSD CourseworkClinical EducationAdditional InformationApply NowSLP Program DescriptionSLP Program Goals AuD in Audiology AdmissionsCurriculumNon-CSD CourseworkClinical EducationAdditional InformationApply NowAuD Program DescriptionAuD Program GoalsAuD Specialization TracksAuD-PhD ProgramDual AuD-MPH Program PhD in CSD AdmissionsApply Now Program DescriptionPhD Program Goals American Sign Language ASL and Deaf StudiesASL CoursesASL as World LanguageASL MinorASL Placement and CreditWhy ASL? Graduate Certificates AACPopulation Hearing HealthVocology Continuing Education Walt Fritz Seminar Diversity Take Action Apply Now Support the School Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Programs Fritz Seminar Seminar: Voice and Swallowing Disorders Memphis, TN: June 10-11, 2022 Walt Fritz, PT’s Foundations in Manual Therapy Seminar: Voice and Swallowing Disorders targets the patient populations of the SLP and voice professional, as well as massage therapists, physical therapists, and occupational therapists with interest in treatment to issues of breathing, the neck, TMJ, tongue, and related areas/topics. The seminar is 14.5 total contact hours covering an examination of the evidence and science behind manual therapy, with a comprehensive yet straightforward narrative built and used throughout the class. Unlike many manual therapy trainings, this seminar relies on sound neuroscience and behavioral science principles to explain the impacts. Principles of manual therapy are introduced and reinforced through guided and assisted instruction, all in the context of a patient-directed model of care. Therapists with no manual therapy experience will find the class supports them through learning, while those with previous experience in manual therapy, circumlaryngeal manual intervention, and other forms of manual therapy will find Walt’s approach introduces further depth and meaning to existing models of care. Using a simple means of touchbased evaluation and treatment, you’ll learn to include shared decision-making in guiding treatment choices. We will work our way through the diaphragm and chest wall region, into the entire anterior neck, the mouth, tongue, and face, all while applying strategies to improve conditions of dysphagia, dysphonia, globus, articulation, and many other commonly encountered problems. In addition to targeting dysfunction, we will be attending to vocal performance. Manual therapy can be a valuable adjunct to existing evaluation and movement-based treatment strategies, not necessarily intended only as a stand-alone intervention. This seminar includes a 2-hour pre-seminar online course, which must be completed before the live 12.5 hours seminar. After completing this seminar, the therapist will understand and apply the principles presented in evaluating and treating a multitude of voice, swallowing, and many related disorders. ASHA CEUs, NCBTMB/Massage Therapist CEs, and many PT and OT State Board CEUs are/will be approved. Voice and Swallowing Disorders: This program is offered for 1.45 ASHA CEUs (Intermediate level; Professional area) and 15.0 NCBTMB/CE Broker. Other CEUs are available; please inquire early. Walt Fritz, PT, has taught his work to thousands of speech-language pathologists and voice professionals and MTs, PT, and OTs across the United States, Canada, Australia, Hong Kong, Jamaica, New Zealand, Taiwan, and the UK and is a course-content expert. His approach to manual therapy in the treatment of voice, swallowing, neck, and related issues are supported by a robust reference list of evidence, as well as through the experiential feedback of the many professionals who have taken his seminars. The manual therapy introduced in this seminar is easily implemented into clinical practice immediately following the completion of the seminar. Walt offers a comprehensive support network after completing the workshop through a private Facebook group, where all the hands-on seminar content has been uploaded in video format and is available to the group. The group also serves as a central meeting place for questions, feedback, and interaction with other professionals who have taken his training, allowing discussion of case examples and patient successes, as well as problem-solving challenging cases. Full details, agenda, evidence to support this work, pricing, and registration: www.WaltFritz.com or call 585-244-6180. Early Bird, Student, and Group discounts apply (10% off for 2-3 therapists and 15% off for four or more). Location: The University of Memphis, School of Communication Services and Disorders, Community Health Building, Room 2042 A&B, 4055 North Park Loop, Memphis, TN 38152 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.