Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Education Academics Forward Arrow Academics Undergraduate Forward Arrow Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Back Arrow Back Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs Forward Arrow Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Back Arrow Back Doctoral Programs Forward Arrow Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Back Arrow Back Programs Forward Arrow Programs Educational Programs Forward Arrow Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Back Arrow Back Labs Forward Arrow Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Back Arrow Back Centers and Institutes Forward Arrow Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Student Advising Forward Arrow Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Back Arrow Back Field Experience Forward Arrow Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Back Arrow Back Student Opportunities Forward Arrow Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Back Arrow Back Student Resources Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About From the Dean Administration Departments Forward Arrow Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Directory Forward Arrow Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Alumni and Friends Forward Arrow Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Back Arrow Back Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting Forward Arrow Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Back Arrow Back Employee Services Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close College of Education Academics show submenu for Academics Undergraduate show submenu for Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs show submenu for Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Doctoral Programs show submenu for Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Research show submenu for Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Programs show submenu for Programs Educational Programs show submenu for Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Labs show submenu for Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Centers and Institutes show submenu for Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Students show submenu for Students Student Advising show submenu for Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Field Experience show submenu for Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Student Opportunities show submenu for Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Student Resources About show submenu for About From the Dean show submenu for From the Dean Dean's Leadership Institute Administration Departments show submenu for Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Directory show submenu for Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Alumni and Friends show submenu for Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting show submenu for Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Employee Services Clemson Home College of Education Students Student Opportunities Current: Study Abroad Study Abroad Interested in Study Abroad? Are you interested in Study Abroad opportunities at Clemson University with the College of Education? If so, follow this process: Attend a Study Abroad 101 Session! Information about days and times offered can be found on the Study Abroad website. After attending a Study Abroad 101 session, students are encouraged to meet with their assigned academic advisors to discuss academic requirements and to identify potential classes or subjects that they will be able to take while abroad. Do not wait to plan your Study Abroad experience! College of Education majors have very specific requirements, and students are encouraged to meet with their advisor as early as possible to discuss their options of where Study Abroad may fit in their academic career. Check out the Reggio Emilia, Italy, study abroad opportunity. You may also want to meet with a financial aid counselor concerning financial aid options and possible scholarships. For more information, visit the Study Abroad website. Reggio Emilia Collaborative Study Abroad History of the Program Reggio Emilia, Italy, is a city of around 175,000 in north-central Italy. It is located in the agricultural and textile-rich area of Italy and is known for the outstanding schools, healthy communities, beautiful architecture, and a rich history of the arts. This region of Italy is also known for its balsamic vinegar, Cheese, wine, textiles, and design. Students from Clemson University first traveled to Reggio Emilia, Italy in May of 2006 to study the Reggio Emilia Approach to education. Joining the Clemson group were students and faculty members from the College of Charleston. A few years later, the University of South Carolina joined the group, thus the Reggio Emilia Collaborative Study Abroad trip has evolved into a very successful experience for approximately 30 students and six faculty members from these universities in South Carolina. The focus of the trip includes the schools, communities, and host families in Reggio Emilia, Italy. Students are paired and stay with an Italian host family who provides housing and meals for the students. In addition, these Italian families embrace the American study abroad experience, and they fold their student into their daily routines and family life. Students indicate that staying with an Italian host family is one of the highlights of the experience. Enduring relationships are built between our students and the Italian parents and children, and frequently these relationships result in future trips to Italy by our students and to America by the host families. Cultural Immersion Experience This cultural immersion experience in Italy provides participating students with 3-6 credit hours at the undergraduate or graduate levels, beginning Italian language lessons, observation and direct experiences in Italian classrooms at a level of the student’s choice, visits to community sites and workshops at the ReMida Center, Malaguzzi Center, and an Italian dance class. On the weekends, students and faculty travel together to Florence and Venice, and students can elect to stay overnight on these weekend trips. In addition, small groups of students travel on their own to Cinque Terra, Parma, Bologna, Modena, and other cities in Italy. There is a close relationship between the students and the participating faculty members. Students study a selected topic of research and work with an assigned faculty member, and faculty also travel with the students and share experiences with them. The ratio of faculty to students is about 1 to 6, and this provides a safe and positive experience for all. Traveling to Europe is a rare opportunity and we encourage and support our students’ travel before or after the scheduled trip. Sometimes students fly into Rome and spend several days there before joining the group in Milan’s Malpensa airport to begin the formal study abroad experience. Other times, students complete the trip and then travel together or with family members to other sites in Italy or to another country before returning to the States. We encourage students to explore Europe while they have the opportunity, and we work with students to find flight connections, hotels, and other planning in order to facilitate the experience for the student. Download the Reggio Flyer Who Should Participate? This trip is open to any Clemson student in good standing. The trip is especially appropriate for students majoring in education, nursing, psychology, sociology, public health and PRTM, as well as other related majors. Students interested in learning more about the diverse school settings for children from preschool through high school are invited to participate. In order to participate, students must make application and pay a deposit of $350, which is subtracted from the program fee. We accept students in good standing and with complete applications on a first come basis, and we consider applications submitted by November 15. Students are invited to contact any of the participating faculty members to discuss the trip and to ask questions and request assistant for the application process. Financial Aspects For a three-week comprehensive experience in Italy, students have these expenses: Program fee of $2,900 to cover housing, meals, travel, language lessons, insurance, bus passes, and group travel during the trip. Course tuition and study abroad fees of approximately $2,000 for 3 hours of undergraduate credits. Flight cost of about $1,200, which can be selected by the student individually, including using frequent flyer miles. Spending money for individual travel, shopping, and other student-selected activities. This varies from student to student but a good estimate is $500 for the trip. Financial aid is also available for most students. Study abroad advisors can assist students as can personnel in the Office of Financial Aid who specialize in advising students wanting to enroll in study abroad courses. Students may use scholarship funds, grants, or low-interest loans. Students typically get support from family and friends also. Courses Available Students may take 3 or 6 hours of credits, and both graduate and undergraduate credits are available. Detailed course information is provided in individual meetings with students and the courses include the following: ED 4380/8380 – Selected Topics ED 4390/8370 – Independent Study EDEC 8000 – Parent Education in Multicultural Settings EDEC 3360 – Play and Social Development of Infants, Toddlers and Preschoolers Reggio Emilia Study Abroad faculty members work with students and the students’ advisors to determine which courses are best suited to each student’s program of studies. Students’ Responses to the Trip Students share their primary reactions to the trip and these include: A love of the country of Italy and the hospitality of the host families; Enjoying the chance to meet other students and to form lasting friendships; A chance to take Italian conversational language lessons while in Italy Their own personal and professional growth that can happen only in a study abroad experience A broadened view of the world and a new appreciation for the global lives we lead and for the Italian culture, including language, dress, food, money, customs, educational practices, and health services Earning 3 to 6 Clemson credits that can count toward their program requirements or electives Get Started Traveling Abroad College of Education "Best In Class" Copyright © Clemson University College of Education "Best In Class" | 101 Gantt Circle 864-656-7656 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson