Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Program in Quantitative Genomics Menuexpand child menu Skip to content About Membership Funding Openings SAVE THE DATE! The 16th annual conference of the Program in Quantitative Genomics “Emerging Challenges and Opportunities in Gene Editing” will take place via Zoom from Nov 3-4, 2022. What is the PQG? The Program in Quantitative Genomics (PQG) is a school-wide interdisciplinary program that responds to the need to handle massive genetic, genomic and omic data in the HSPH and the Longwood area. B3D Big Data Seminar Co-organized by the Department of Biostatistics at the HSPH and the Department of Biomedical Informatics at HMS. People The PQG draws on and builds the expertise of a diverse, interdisciplinary group of faculty, postdocs, students, and associates. Education With interdisciplinary training in statistical and computational science, PQG students stand at the leading edge of genomic research. Research The PQG promotes interdisciplinary research by developing scalable methods to interpret massive genomic, epidemiological, and clinical data. Seminars & Events The PQG supports a variety of opportunities for participants to gain "hands-on" experience, exchange ideas, and be exposed to cutting edge research. News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College