Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Navigating Relationships & Sex During COVID Events Past Event Navigating Relationships & Sex During COVID Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 6, 2021 7:30 PM - 9:00 PM America/New_York Online Event Join us for the 15th Annual Jeanne Clery Lecture Series. This much needed conversation will feature sex educators, Franciso Ramirez and Bianca Laureano, in discussion around how to best navigate relationships and sex during this significant moment in our collective history. Together, we will explore communication strategies for strengthening our relationships, what consent looks like – both in person and from a distance, ways to promote respect, and how to take care of our mental health during this challenging time. Bianca Laureano, PhD, MA2, CSES is an award-winning educator and sexologist. She is a founding member of the Women of Color Sexual Health Network (WOCSHN) and her most recent project is ANTE UP! a virtual freedom school offering professional development and certification. She has written several curricula and is the lead writer for the Netflix film Crip Camp’s curriculum rooted in disability justice principles. She is an AASECT certified sexuality educator and supervisor, and in May 2020 was awarded an honorary doctorate from the California Institute for Integral Studies for her work in expanding the US sexuality field. Find out more about Bianca at her website BiancaLaureano.com and learn more about ANTE UP! at www.AnteUpPD.com. Francisco Ramirez, MPH (@FranciscoNYC) talks about sex, all the time. He is an award-winning sexuality educator, tech founder, and college speaker. He holds a Master of Public Health and has worked at the UN since 2005, talking about sex everywhere from Afghanistan to Uganda. Ramirez is a host on MTV and NPR, and recently released OkaySo, a smartphone app connecting young people to sexperts. Most recently, he co-starred in “Sex Probz” on The Cut, and served as Vice President at Planned Parenthood. For the past 10 years, he has put out two chairs and a sign that reads “Free Sex Advice” in New York City parks and subways. Learn more at: FranciscoRamirez.com. The Jeanne Clery Lecture Series was established by Constance Clery BC ’53 and Howard Clery, Jr. in memory of their daughter, Jeanne Clery. Please register on Zoom. For disability-related accommodation requests, please fill out Barnard College's Event Accessibility Request Form. Contact Information Sexual Violence Response 212-854-3500 [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close