Online & Hybrid Class Search - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Online Education Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Online & Special Programs About About Us Contact Us State Authorization UH System Online Degree Programs Online Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Hybrid Programs UH Extend Programs Online Minors UH Sessions FAQs Sessions Calendar Summer Sessions Calendar Fall Sessions Calendar Class Search Online Professional Development Professional Training Certificate Programs MOOCS Students Prospective Students Student Types Admissions Cost Online Success Student Resources Current Students Student Resources Online Success Remote Learning Proctoring Services Proctoring Request Form Instructors Class Search Syllabus Search Request Info ONLINE & HYBRID CLASS SEARCH HOW IT WORKS The online and hybrid class search is designed to help you quickly find classes that fit your schedule. Instantly search for classes by instruction mode and get easy access to course descriptions, instructor contact information and how many seats are still available. The online and hybrid class search is updated twice daily. For the most current listing of available classes and to register for courses, go to AccessUH. To search for short sessions courses please visit the Sessions Class Search page. To search for course syllabus please visit our Syllabus Search webpage. Need more information? Contact Us. Search for Classes > ONLINE COURSES Online credit courses at UH are primarily taught through the learning management system Blackboard or CourseWare. These courses may have minimal face to face requirements, particularly for exams. Courses have been designed for an engaging learning experience. HYBRID COURSES Hybrid credit courses at UH are primarily taught through the learning management system Blackboard or CourseWare with face to face on campus requirements. The date(s) and time(s) students are required to meet face to face are noted in the course schedule. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies