Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Political Economy Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Political Economy Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Political Economy Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Political Economy Examine the parallels between the government and economy with the Undergraduate Certificate in Political Economy in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This 18-credit cross-disciplinary certificate program is offered by the Department of Economics and the Department of Political Science, and it is open to all matriculated undergraduate students. You’ll explore public policy and the policy-making process, as well as how government actions affect the process of economic change. Develop a fundamental understanding of American politics, international politics, macroeconomics and microeconomics. Sharpen your critical thinking skills by correlating how government actions and economic conditions shape public policy and society as a whole. The Political Economy Undergraduate Certificate facilitates the study of political economy on a deeper level and prepares students for graduate work in a number of fields including business, economics, law, political science and public policy. Classes & Curriculum Students pursuing the Political Economy Undergraduate Certificate take the following core courses, which are also offered at the honors level. Macroeconomic Principles Microeconomic Principles The American Political System Students can also choose one of the following courses. Foreign Governments and Politics International Politics Students complete the undergraduate certificate program by choosing four electives: two economics courses and two political science courses. A substantial number of electives allow students to tailor the program to their academic and professional interests. Learn more about Political Economy Certificate (Undergraduate) coursework. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration MBA Economics MA Economics PhD Political Science MA Political Science PhD Public Policy MPP Careers The skills gained from a liberal arts degree are highly relevant in today’s rapidly evolving world. Apply the experience and knowledge acquired in the Political Economy Certificate (Undergraduate) program to your professional pursuits across many organizations and industries, including academics, cultural institutions, government agencies or the social sciences. The versatility of this program’s curriculum helps you graduate with valuable skill sets sought by many employers. The Political Economy Undergraduate Certificate program not only prepares students for graduate study in economics and political science, but also business, law and public policy. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For questions regarding the Political Economy Certificate (Undergraduate), contact the following staff members. Moritz Ritter is an associate professor in the Economics Department. Phone: 215-204-5029 Email: moritz.ritter@temple.edu Alexandra Guisinger is an associate professor in the Political Science Department. Phone: 215-204-7796 Email: alexandra.guisinger@temple.edu Roselyn Hsueh is an associate professor in the Political Science Department. Phone: 215-204-7796 Email: rhsueh@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-POLE-CERT Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Political Economy Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info