Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Romero Scholarship Back Back Close Scholarship & Application Recipients Overview Mikayla Sanchez (2022) Daniela Vazquez Loriga (2021) Carolina Tiru (2019) Jorge Mejia (2018) Steven Guerrero (2017) Jessica Vallejo (2013) Rui Soares (2012) Jesus Damian Baeza (2011) George Hart (2010) Jeans Santana (2009) Jennifer Castillo (2008) Genoveva Abreu (2007) Nora Frias (2006) Arivee Vargas (2004) Stephanie Valencia (2003) Gabriel Verdaguer (2002) Roystone Martinez (2001) Alumni Award Overview Marina Pastrana Arivee Vargas Rozier-Byrd Alberto Vasallo Saint Oscar Romero Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The Saint Oscar A. Romero Scholarship recognizes a Boston College junior who has demonstrated superior academic achievement, extracurricular leadership, community service, and involvement with the Hispanic/Latino community and Hispanic/Latino issues both on and off campus. The scholarship recipient understands and represents the values and ideals inherent in the life of Archbishop Oscar A. Romero, one of the greatest symbols of Christian love and solidarity. Mikayla Sanchez MCAS '23 2022's Romero Scholarship Recipient “. . . We plant seeds that one day will grow. We water seeds already planted, knowing that they hold future promise. We lay foundations that will need further development. We provide yeast that produces effects beyond our capabilities. . . . We may never see the end results, but that is the difference between the master builder and the worker. We are workers, not master builders, ministers, not messiahs. We are prophets of a future not our own. Amen.” The Oscar Romero Prayer Back To Top Back To Top Romero Scholarship bcromero@bc.edu Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College