Skip to main content UAB - The University of Alabama at Birmingham admin login frontend login Department of Neurobiology Heersink School of Medicine Search ... Go Contact School of Medicine UAB Quicklinks UAB Home Academic Calendar Accessibility AdminSystems Apply AskIT Blazer Express BlazerNET BlazerPulse Bookstore Campus Calendar Campus Map Canvas Departments Directory Email Emergency/B-Alert Employee Resources Employment MyUAB Employee Portal Giving to UAB TechConnect UAB eLearning More Items About Resources Contact Faculty Education Grad Students Undergrads Summer Research Neuroscience Roadmap Scholars Research Evelyn F. McKnight Brain Institute Neuroscience Core Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion News & Events Calendar Seminar Series News Give Faculty Secondary Faculty Postdocs Non-tenure Earning Assistant Professors and Instructors More Cruikshank, Scott, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Research Synaptic and cellular organization and processing in the neocortex and thalamus, with an emphasis on sensory systems Publications Two dynamically distinct circuits drive inhibition in the sensory thalamus, RI Martinez-Garcia, B Voelcker, JB Zaltsman, SL Patrick, TR Stevens, BW Connors, SJ Cruikshank, Nature 583 (7818), 813-818; 2020 A corticothalamic switch: controlling the thalamus with dynamic synapses, SR Crandall, SJ Cruikshank, BW Connors, Neuron 86 (3), 768-782; 2015 Thalamic control of layer 1 circuits in prefrontal cortex, SJ Cruikshank, OJ Ahmed, TR Stevens, SL Patrick, AN Gonzalez, ..., Journal of Neuroscience 32 (49), 17813-17823; 2012 Pathway-specific feedforward circuits between thalamus and neocortex revealed by selective optical stimulation of axons, SJ Cruikshank, H Urabe, AV Nurmikko, BW Connors, Neuron 65 (2), 230-245; 2010 Synaptic basis for intense thalamocortical activation of feedforward inhibitory cells in neocortex, SJ Cruikshank, TJ Lewis, BW Connors, Nature neuroscience 10 (4), 462-468; 2007 Auditory thalamocortical synaptic transmission in vitro, SJ Cruikshank, HJ Rose, R Metherate, Journal of neurophysiology 87 (1), 361-384; 2002 For a full list of publications: https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=qup9WlQAAAAJ Biography Dr. Cruikshank received his Ph.D. and postdoctoral training from the University of California, Irvine. Before coming to UAB in 2019, he was a research track professor in the Department of Neuroscience at Brown University. Research Dr. Cruikshank studies synaptic and sensory processing in neural circuits of the neocortex and thalamus. Clarifying how these structures bidirectionally control one another will be an important part of understanding mammalian information processing. His work involves neurophysiology in intact animals and in vitro, pharmacology, anatomy, behavior and optogenetics. He often combines whole-cell recordings from genetically-identified neurons with optical control. An overarching goal is to identify basic principles of cortical-thalamic processing, including interactions with brain state. Contact Email sjc@uab.edu Telephone 205-996-6247 Contact UAB | Cookie Settings | A-Z Site Index | Privacy | Terms of Use | © 2022 The University of Alabama at Birmingham UAB is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer committed to fostering a diverse, equitable and family-friendly environment in which all faculty and staff can excel and achieve work/life balance irrespective of race, national origin, age, genetic or family medical history, gender, faith, gender identity and expression as well as sexual orientation. UAB also encourages applications from individuals with disabilities and veterans.