Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Degree Programs UofM Global Degrees Social Science | Undergraduate and Graduate Programs Degree Programs Online Degrees Undergraduate Degrees All Undergraduate DegreesBusinessComputingHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesSocial Science Graduate Degrees All Graduate DegreesArtsBusinessComputingEducationEngineeringHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesLiberal StudiesSocial Science Graduate Certificates Complimentary Courses Contact Us Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Social Science | Undergraduate and Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs African and African American Studies The African and African American studies program offers students the opportunity to student Africana history and culture through an interdisciplinary lens. Students may focus their studies in the humanities, communications and fine arts, or social and behavioral sciences. Learn More Anthropology Anthropology majors develop cross-cultural communication, human relations, critical thinking, writing, analysis, evaluation, problem-solving, planning, and community outreach skills. It is an ideal field to prepare for jobs that require people skills, and understanding of multicultural and institutional dynamics. Learn More Bachelors of Professional Studies Child Development and Family Studies Concentration Child Development and Family Studies focuses on recognizing and enhancing important developmental milestones for children from birth through adolescence. Students will learn how to create effective learning environments to promote children's healthy development as well as assist parents in creating positive relationships and environments for the development of their children. Learn More Bachelors of Professional Studies Child Life Specialist Concentration The Bachelor of Professional Studies’ Child Life Specialist Concentration focuses on developing the skills needed to become a child life specialist. Child life specialists areprofessionals who work closely with children and their families in hospitals and other settings to help them cope with the challenges of hospitalization, illness, and disability. Learn More Bachelors of Professional Studies with a Concentration in Legal Studies The Legal Studies Program teaches theoretical and practical aspects of the field of law as a profession. The Program equips students to offer substantive legal support services to firms and agencies or to continue their education in law school. Learn More Communication The Department of Communication at the University of Memphis helps its undergraduate majors to understand more fully what communication is and how it can be applied effectively in a variety of contexts and settings. The program provides needed background and skills that help to make students successful in their chosen professional careers, as well as prepare them for advanced graduate study. Learn More Criminology and Criminal Justice The study of crime and justice is complex as researchers, practitioners, and policy makers tackle issues of policing strategies, corrections, capital punishment, violence, gangs, addiction, and international crime. The University of Memphis emphasizes research, scholarship, service and community outreach. Learn More Early Care & Learning The Bachelor of Professional Studies in Early Care and Learning develops students’ knowledge and skills in child development and learning, observation and assessment, pedagogy and research through classroom and field experiences. Students will be prepared for employment in a discipline working with children aged birth to 4 years old and their families, and may pursue graduate training that leads to careers in education, academia, research, health professions, or social work. Learn More Early Intervention The Bachelor of Professional Studies in Early Intervention (ages 0-3) focuses on recognizing the uniqueness of the provision of instruction and/or service coordination in the field of Part C the Federal IDEA legislation for early intervention (ages 0-3). Learn More International and Global Studies The International and Global Studies program provides students with the opportunity to learn about the world from an interdisciplinary perspective. In bringing together several traditional disciplines, including Political Science, Economics, Anthropology, Geography, and History,students gain a solid foundation of knowledge concerning international society, global economic systems, as well as myriad national and cultural perspectives on subjects ranging from global security and humanitarianism to transnational history and environmental sustainability. Learn More Political Science The B.A. Political Science online offering provides students with options and opportunity to complete their degree in a timely format. Courses such as but not limited to American Government, Political Thought, and International Relations are offered each semester including summer in rotation to provide flexibility and to ensure students stay on track to graduate. Learn More Psychology The Bachelor of Arts degree in Psychology is designed to achieve several broad objectives: to increase students' understanding of their cultural and natural worlds through greater familiarity with the humanities, natural sciences and social sciences; to enhance their skills in communication, quantitative analysis, and critical reasoning; and to prepare them to fulfill their roles as responsible members of their families, community and society. Learn More Social Work The Bachelor of Arts in Social Work prepares students for entrance into the profession of social work as generalist practitioners. Social work majors are required to be available for synchronous class sessions for some courses. The BA in social work requires an in-person field placement with 460 contact hours. Learn More Sociology The Department of Sociology in the College of Arts and Sciences at The University of Memphis is proud to offer the online Bachelor of Arts in Sociology. The degree requires a total of 120 credit hours. Learn More Graduate Programs Master of Arts in Criminal Justice The graduate program of the Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice, which is part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy, seeks to serve students who are interested in the criminal justice system, with a focus on those who seek careers in this area. Learn More Master of Arts in Journalism and Strategic Media The University of Memphis Department of Journalism and Strategic Media offers a Master of Arts degree online and on campus. Students can chose one of four emphases - News and Storytelling, Integrated Strategic Media, Visual Media or Research. Learn More Master of Nonprofit Management This 39 credit hour degree program is geared towards students interested in nonprofit careers. The MNM will provide students with the theoretical and practical knowledge necessary to lead and transform organizations and address complex social issues. Graduates will leave the program with the distinct set of skills needed for successful practice and leadership in the nonprofit sector. Learn More Master of Social Work Program Including Advanced Standing Track The Master of Social Work (MSW) Program is a 60 credit hour program. Advanced Standing Track is a 37 credit hour program that requires a Bachelor’s Degree in social work from a Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) accredited social work program. Applications are accepted in Fall and Spring for the 60 credit hour program and Summer for the Advanced Standing Track. Online students must have daytime availability to complete field placement. Learn More Doctor of Social Work The Doctor of Social Work is a part-time program for practicing social workers in leadership, management, research, and evaluation. Admission to the program requires the Master of Social Work degree and two years post-MSW practice experience. Synchronous class meetings are required. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Local Government Management The Department of Public and Nonprofit Administration offers the Graduate Certificate in Local Government Management to mayors, managers, department heads, supervisors and other local government professionals. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership Every employee and volunteer in a nonprofit organization plays a role in meeting the philanthropic goals and charitable purposes of the organization. The Certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership is designed to meet the needs of these employees and volunteers looking for advanced study in the theory and practice of nonprofit administration. Learn More Graduate Certificate in School Social Work The Graduate Certificate in School Social Work Prepares Students for School Social Work Licensure. Students must be either concurrently enrolled from a Master of Social Work program or have completed a Master of Social Work degree. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Entrepreneurial Journalism From starting a business to engaging audiences through social media, learn the media skills to succeed while surrounded by Memphis’ abundant entrepreneurship community. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Multimedia Storytelling Update skills in multimedia with a focus on telling stories through various platforms including photography, audio, video and data visualization. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Social Media Analysis and Strategy Learn tools in audience analysis and segmentation, analytics and evaluation and community engagement to build and maintain a social media presence for brands and organizations. Earn certifications in various analytic software and programs. Learn More About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/14/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.