<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Portrait Project Portrait Project Soley Olafsson MD/MBA 2022 “Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?” I have lived with a lot of sickness. I was not sick, but many people around me were. I remember my brother losing unhealthy amounts of weight, struggling to stay on the football team in high school, as the doctors ran tests to eventually diagnose him with Crohn’s Disease. There was another family member who missed my college graduation as they attended treatment programs for substance abuse. I spent many nights sleeping on a hospital bench, as my significant other was getting treatment for leukemia. Not all of it was forced upon me. I chose to seek it out. I went to medical school and diagnosed and treated patients with sicknesses of all kinds. Life can be hard, and sickness can make it harder. I have devoted my life to trying to temper that sickness – trying to cure or treat to the best of my abilities. As a future doctor, I hope my own experiences lend me empathy and a listening ear for my patients. With each day of my practice, I plan to walk into the room and treat each patient as though it was my brother, my family member, or my significant other. — Soley Olafsson The Portrait Project Each year we ask our classmates a straightforward, simple question taken from the lines of a poem by Pulitzer Prize-winning author, Mary Oliver. We share with you intimate and candid responses to this question, "Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?" Concept and photography: Tony Deifell, MBA '02 More Portrait Project ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College