Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Mathematics for Teaching Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Mathematics for Teaching Certificate (Graduate) Mathematics for Teaching Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Graduate Certificate in Mathematics for Teaching Gain a broader understanding of mathematics and expand your ability to support student learning at the secondary level with Temple University’s Graduate Certificate in Mathematics for Teaching in the College of Science and Technology. This 12-credit graduate certificate program is designed to equip teachers with knowledge beyond basic mathematical principles and logic to enhance student comprehension and engagement in middle and high school classrooms. The program’s curriculum aligns with the Mathematical Practice Standards presented in the Common Core State Standards, and coursework explores how to implement these standards in the classroom. You’ll build expertise and learn new techniques for student success, and develop a deeper awareness of mathematical theory, topics and pedagogy. Appreciate mathematics as a language through which you can analyze physical reality and answer real-life questions, and learn how to teach these concepts to your future students. Courses focus on learning a diverse set of instructional tools for a wide variety of problems, both in theory and application. You’ll learn nontraditional teaching techniques such as the practice of inquiry-based learning and effective ways to incorporate technology into the classroom. Classes & Curriculum Students are required to take four of the following five courses. Algebra and Functions for Teaching Geometry for Teaching Introduction to Mathematical Modeling for Teaching Number Theory and Proof for Teaching Probability Theory and Applications for Teaching Learn more about Mathematics for Teaching Certificate (Graduate) courses. Careers Graduates of the Mathematics for Teaching Certificate (Graduate) are prepared to continue their careers as professional educators. Armed with a greater understanding of mathematics theory and pedagogy, teachers who earn this graduate certificate are better equipped to instruct mathematics at the secondary level. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contacts For general questions regarding the Mathematics for Teaching Graduate Certificate, email grad.math@temple.edu. Please contact the following staff members regarding the Mathematics for Teaching Graduate Certificate. Yury Grabovsky is a professor and graduate chairperson in the Mathematics Department. Email: yury.grabovsky@temple.edu Maria Lorenz is a professor of instruction and director of undergraduate studies in the Mathematics Department. Email: angelone@temple.edu Irina Mitrea is a professor and department chair in the Mathematics Department. Email: imitrea@temple.edu Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-MFTC-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Mathematics for Teaching Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.