Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Puerto Rico Home Connect Chapters Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Puerto Rico The Puerto Rico Chapter was formally established in 2014 and is home to just under 1,000 alumni, parents, and friends. This mighty group of Eagles is a tight-knit and welcoming community, who frequently gathers for everything from networking, to professional development, to game watches and more! The presence of Eagles in Puerto Rico has been notable since the 80’s; when Clifford Myatt Sr. organized gatherings at the Swiss Chalet. His son, Clifford Myatt Jr. ‘75, then followed by organizing game watches at Shannan's Pub. Additionally, the relentless recruitment efforts of Hector Viña ‘80 has been key to the successful enrollment of hundreds of outstanding Eagles! 987 Alumni Parents & Friends social leaders contact us events Follow Us Puerto Rico Chapter Facebook Page Puerto Rico Chapter Instagram Page Meet Your Chapter Leaders Glori Alvarez '88 Lives in: Guaynabo, Puerto Rico Major: Communications Occupation: Marketing Favorite BC Memory: Wow, there are so many awesome memories! My top one has to be when I ran the 2016 Boston Marathon. My daughter, Sarah ‘16, and her friends were all cheering me on at mile 21. To top it off, they were all wearing “We Run with Glori” shirts which they sold to raise funds for Dana Farber. Why did you get involved in your local chapter?: We may leave Chestnut Hill, but BC will never leave us. When the opportunity arose in 2014 to help re-organize the BCPR Chapter, I, alongside a group of enthusiastic fellow Eagles, hosted events consistently and made it a point to continue the sense of community that our dear BC instilled in us. The Boston College Puerto Rico Chapter seeks to nurture the strong connection between Boston College and our local alumni, students, parents and friends. Reach out & join us, WeAreBC!!! Francisco J. Arraiza '93 Lives in: Guaynabo, Puerto Rico Major: Major in Biology, Pre-Med Occupation: MD with specialty in Diagnostic Radiology and Subspecialty in Vascular and Interventional Radiology. Favorite BC Memory: BC defeating Notre Dame in 1993. Why did you get involved in your local chapter?: BC gave me an opportunity to grow not only academically but also personally and spiritually. I want to promote the school among potential candidates and be a liaison between the school and the alumni community. I also want to create a mentorship program to help recent graduates navigate the professional work environment. What are your local favorites in your city?: My favorite running route in Puerto Rico is in Old San Juan. My favorite restaurant is MIDA Cafe. Fun Fact: I enjoy running, water sports, and going to the beach with my family. Alumni Staff Liaison Name: Ana Mirovic Contact: ana.mirovic@bc.edu Events ENGAGE WITH US ON EAGLE EXCHANGE! STAY CONNECTED AND BUILD YOUR NETWORK Eagle Exchange is an online platform that facilitates career-related conversations between current Boston College students and alumni, and is a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Search by location to connect with local Eagles! Join Today Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok