Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home HIV HIV HIV Testing, Prevention, and Treatment Testing for the HIV antibody is open to everyone at Columbia: Available for free to all students, their partners, staff, and faculty regardless of gender or orientation Offered with convenient drop-in hours five days a week with next-day results No appointment necessary Client-centered peer counselors are sensitive to your situation, whether it’s your first test or routine testing. They will tailor the session to your needs Our advocates welcome questions about HIV, STIs, vaccines, and safer sex We are non-judgmental; our goal is to support you through your testing experience and to provide you with accurate information We uphold strict levels of confidentiality; all counselors are HIPAA-certified For those who are HIV positive, GHAP facilitates the HIV Positive Support Group, a confidential and friendly space for positive students where concerns about health, stigma, and disclosure are addressed, and students explore ways to cope and thrive. Drop-in Hours During the academic year, Columbia Health offers drop-in hours for HIV antibody testing through the Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP), five days a week in John Jay Hall. No appointment is required Results are ready the following day Students can contact GHAP at 212-854-6655 to arrange for testing at times other than the drop-in hours or for additional questions At GHAP, we care about your privacy. At the Columbia Health reception desk on the third floor of John Jay, fill out the card labeled "We Care About Your Privacy," and write a first name (whatever name you want to be called) at the bottom. Indicate whether you are here: To get a test To pick up results for a test you had previously For another reason, by checking the appropriate response Then, give the form to a patient services assistant behind the desk. Have a seat in the reception area and wait for an advocate to call the name you indicated on the form. Consult with an Advocate Even if you are not sure that you want a test, you can come in and talk with a peer advocate. Trained advocates from the Gay Health Advocacy Project will work with you to understand confusing and sometimes anxiety-provoking information about HIV and its transmission. We can help you assess and reduce your risk of HIV infection, and provide information about the transmission, treatment, and prevention of other sexually transmitted infections (STIs) as well. Advocates are also trained to provide counseling about other topics. Treatment and Support for HIV-positive Students Columbia Health and GHAP staff work together to offer the clinical care, support, and information that HIV-positive students need to manage infection effectively. All services are covered under the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan, including: Individualized care from an HIV specialist Regular monitoring of CD4 and viral load Medications Preventative treatments Psychological support, both individual and group Note: For HIV-positive students who plan to study at Columbia, the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan provides coverage sufficient for HIV medication prescriptions, although you should choose the Platinum plan. If you have other insurance, we will help you connect to services that cover the costs. Contact GHAP by calling 212-854-6655 with questions. For students with a known or likely exposure to HIV, GHAP can facilitate further testing, post-exposure prophylaxis, and professional support. Expand all Collapse all Pre- and Post-exposure Prophylaxis and Other Urgent Matters PrEP Columbia Health offers pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP). PrEP is the use of an antiretroviral drug (Truvada) to prevent HIV infection in HIV-negative individuals at significant risk of becoming HIV-positive. Truvada has been shown to significantly reduce the risk of HIV infection in men who have sex with men, injection drug users, heterosexual cisgender women, and transgender women. Columbia Health will provide all necessary medical services and prescriptions if you need PrEP. Columbia Health wants to be sure that your experience in obtaining PrEP is simple, non-judgmental, supportive, and fairly rapid, and that you receive all the support you need. If you are enrolled in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan, Truvada is covered. You may be eligible to receive reimbursement from the drug manufacturer for the copay. If you have a different insurance, it may pay for PrEP and we will assist you in getting insurance information. Starting PrEP The first step is to contact the Gay Health Advocacy Project at Columbia Health Medical Services. PrEP requires a prescription, a daily pill, and a health care provider visit with blood tests four times a year. Long-term side effects are generally minimal and are monitored by blood tests of kidney function. You may want to consider PrEP if your sexual partner(s) are positive or if you are in a higher-risk group (including men who have sex with men and trans women) and do not use a condom every time you have anal or vaginal intercourse. Please Contact GHAP using our secure online system or call 212-854-6655 for further information or to start the process of using PrEP to protect yourself. PEP Post-exposure prophylaxis is treatment with anti-retroviral medication that can prevent an HIV infection from taking hold. It must be initiated within 72 hours of exposure—the sooner, the better. The need to initiate PEP is considered a medical emergency. Please contact us 24/7 at 212-854-7426. More About HIV U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: HIV Women Living With HIV POZ Department Gay Health Advocacy Project Topics STIs Sexual and Reproductive Health Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close