Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts College of Medicine to participate in national effort to assess and improve teaching clinical reasoning NBME selects college to join its Creative Community program By Richard Puff Email RichardEmail Richard May 31, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like Clinical reasoning is one of the most important skills educators can help medical students develop. Unfortunately, it is really difficult to teach and, even more so, to assess. “Assessment of clinical reasoning is often reduced to the most observable skills: medical interviewing, physical exam and documentation of differential diagnosis,” says Matthew Kelleher, MD, an assistant professor in the Department of Pediatrics, co-director of the first- and second year Clinical Skills Course in the College of Medicine and associate program director for the Department of Internal Medicine Residency Program. “While emphasizing these skills are important, in my opinion, we could do better in helping students put everything together in developing clinical reasoning skills.” In an effort to improve the teaching and assessment of clinical reasoning, the National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME) has selected the College of Medicine to join its Creative Community program as one of 10 medical schools to design and pilot new solutions. Kelleher will lead the work at UC, which will receive $150,000 during the next two years to support the work. Nearly 100 medical colleges applied to be a part of the program. The Creative Community program will be looking at several issues challenging medical schools today. The first issue to be addressed is clinical reasoning. “Clinical reasoning is essential to becoming a competent clinician, but it can be hard to assess because many of its subcomponents are an invisible process inside the trainee’s head. To make things harder, clinical reasoning is also one of those common terms used in medical education that has been poorly defined,” Kelleher says. The 10 medical schools selected by the NBME are diverse geographically and racially and differ by size and available resources. The schools will utilize resources offered by NBME to better understand how medical educators currently teach and assess clinical reasoning and how it can be done better. Matthew Kelleher, MD “Much like medical education has learned that assessing competence can no longer be described as ‘I know it when I see it,’ clinical reasoning also requires a multidimensional, outcomes-based approach to how we assess it and how we help students improve these skills,” Kelleher says. “That is the mission of this community.” Clinical reasoning has been commonly assessed using objective structured clinical examination (OSCE), in which simulated patients are seen by students to learn and improve their ability to take a medical history and conduct physical examinations. The NBME has found that almost all medical schools in the country are operating some sort of simulation OSCEs, Kelleher says. “OSCEs create an opportunity to make the entire clinical reasoning process more visible. Assessment in the simulation environment often focuses on students hitting specific checkpoints, but we are excited to think instead of how students got to those checkpoints. Emphasizing this process should help students develop their own clinical reasoning skills and hopefully serve as faculty development for many to learn and apply it to their teaching and assessment in the clinical workplace,” Kelleher says. Kelleher equates the teaching of clinical reasoning to cooking. “Students may master following the steps in a recipe, but do they understand why each ingredient is used, and how to make decisions when results are not expected or tools are limited?” he asks. He adds that OSCEs are a great opportunity to better assess clinical reasoning because “it is highly observable and the structure allows us to focus on certain subcomponents of clinical reasoning.” Joining Kelleher in the project will be Laurah Lukin, PhD, assistant dean for medical education; Tracy Pritchard, PhD, director of medical education; Pamela Baker, PhD, associate dean for medical education; Michael Sostok, MD, assistant dean for medical education and professor, Department of Internal Medicine; Danielle Weber, MD, assistant professor, Department of Internal Medicine; and Sally Santen, MD, PhD, professor, Department of Emergency Medicine. The group began work earlier this month. Each school involved also will be adding one student to the work groups to be part of the co-creation, piloting and implementation of whatever assessments are generated. “My hope is that whatever co-created assessments we pilot, that ultimately we help students gain insights into their current development of clinical reasoning skills. It is hard to improve one’s clinical reasoning without first knowing where the opportunities are to grow,” Kelleher says. “Improving the assessment and subsequent teaching of clinical reasoning in medical school could hopefully have long-lasting effects on the patients we serve and particularly the disproportionate effect that clinical reasoning errors contribute to health care disparities.” Other medical schools involved in the project are Duke University School of Medicine, Howard University College of Medicine, Kaiser Permanente Bernard J. Tyson School of Medicine, Morehouse School of Medicine, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, University of Central Florida College of Medicine, University of Connecticut School of Medicine, University of New England College of Osteopathic Medicine and University of New Mexico School of Medicine. Featured image at top: CARE/Crawley Building, UC College of Medicine. Colleen Kelley/UC Creative + Brand Tags College of Medicine Medical Education Related Stories Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Imaging Technology News: First FLASH proton therapy trial... May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's John Breneman, MD, spoke with Imaging Technology News about the completion of enrollment of the FAST-01 trial, the first FLASH proton therapy trial completed in humans. Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top