Alert message This dialog contains an alert message for the Penn State community. For the latest COVID-19 news and information, visit Penn State's Coronavirus Information website. Continue to follow CDC-recommended health/safety precautions, contact your healthcare provider if you have questions or feel ill, and review information from state and national health authorities. Close Coronavirus Updates Skip to main content This is Penn State Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Leadership History Facts and Rankings Our Impact Health Care Featured Impact: Beyond Limitations Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools Online Degrees Global Education Academic Colleges Campus Locations Penn State among top 100 universities in the world in 2022 QS Rankings Admission Undergraduate Graduate Online Professional Schools Continuing Education Featured Impact: First To Inspire Tuition and Aid Research Athletics News Latest News Academics Our Research Campus Life Athletics Administration Arts and Entertainment College and Campus News Surviving in Place: Environmental archeology in Madagascar Hotline Give Apply More Full site navigation menu This dialog contains the full navigation menu for www.psu.edu. Search Term Hotline Give Apply This is Penn State Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Leadership History Facts and Rankings Our Impact Health Care Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools Online Degrees Global Education Academic Colleges Campus Locations Admission Undergraduate Graduate Online Professional Schools Continuing Education Tuition and Aid Research Athletics News Latest News Academics Our Research Campus Life Athletics Administration Arts and Entertainment Find Information For: Visitors Prospective Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Business and Industry Veterans and Military Alumni Media Helpful Links Find a Campus Maps Careers Directory Academic Calendar Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Close One Community Impacting Many As Pennsylvania’s sole land-grant institution and its largest public university, Penn State is a shared public asset that provides opportunity and enriches the quality of life for residents of the Commonwealth and beyond. Our combined efforts and talents as well as our scale make Penn State an instrument for change and impact. Not only are we educating Pennsylvanians from all walks of life, we’re also fueling the state’s economy, serving our communities, and solving universal problems. Featured Stories of Impact Penn Staters are imagining, inventing, and collaborating our way to a better world Educating Pennsylvanians As one university with the resources of twenty-five campus locations—including a medical college, two law schools, a school of graduate professional studies, and an online World Campus—we're setting students up for greater career potential and empowering them to positively impact the world. Our unique educational model makes a Penn State degree accessible to students from all backgrounds, from first-generation students to adult learners. From the Waiting Room to the Living Room With entrepreneurial guidance, education, and funding from programs at Penn State, recent biology graduate Sherveen “Shevy” Karbasi is bringing complete blood count testing out of the clinic and onto a smartphone. Read Shevy’s story. Impacting the Pennsylvania Economy By leveraging our size and research strengths, Penn State drives job creation, economic development, and student career success while contributing more the $11.6 billion annually to the state’s economy. Through the Invent Penn State initiative, the University has made a $30 million investment in economic development that supports entrepreneurs in their communities through partnerships with Penn State campuses. Sustaining Communities Through Small Business As the director of Penn State Law’s Entrepreneur Assistance Clinic, Tom Sharbaugh is helping support the Pennsylvania economy by providing small businesses and entrepreneurs free legal expertise and resources. Read more about the Entrepreneur Assistance Clinic. Serving Communities Across the State We serve Pennsylvania’s communities through partnerships that include county extension offices, philanthropy, and a teaching hospital. Through Penn State Extension offices—located in all sixty-seven Pennsylvania counties—residents have access to practical training and advice based on University research. Penn State Health’s comprehensive health network provides residents with high-quality care and treatment at locations throughout the state. Saving the Chesapeake As Pennsylvania renews efforts to clean the state's waterways and the Chesapeake Bay, Penn State's College of Agricultural Sciences is crafting a strategy in which farmers can help. Read more about Penn State’s impact on the Chesapeake Bay. Solving Universal Problems As a research enterprise grounded in an interdisciplinary spirit, Penn State’s breadth of expertise allows us to tackle the most pressing issues for the Commonwealth and beyond. Fifteen disciplines—from psychology to atmospheric science and materials engineering—rank nationally in the top ten for research expenditures. (Only one other major research university—Johns Hopkins—shares this distinction.) Smart Fabrics Felecia Davis, an associate professor of architecture, is leveraging Penn State’s network of expertise to weave art with science in reimagining the use of everyday fabric. Working with an interdisciplinary team of researchers, Davis is exploring how these smart fabrics can provide shelter and energy to communities around the world. Read Felecia’s story. 95%+ Of Pennsylvanians live within thirty miles of a Penn State campus. $11.6B+ Contributed to the Pennsylvania economy in FY 2017. 67 Pennsylvania counties served by Penn State Extension. 21 Innovation hubs supporting economic growth across Pennsylvania. Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Get News By Email // Discover News Explore News Careers Facts and Rankings Colleges Campuses Health Care Research Impact Resources Prospective Students Current Students International Students Business and Industry Veterans and Military Visitors Faculty and Staff Alumni Media Popular Links Maps Directory Libraries Academic Calendar LionPATH Stay Connected Emails / Headlines Emergency Notifications Penn State Go Strategic Communications Report Misconduct Police 201 Old Main, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802 814-865-4700 Contact Us Privacy Statement Non Discrimination Accessibility Equal Opportunity Legal Statements The Pennsylvania State University © 2022