Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Office of the Student Experience Orientation and Transition Programs Orientation and Transition Programs Mustang StartUp Stampede First 5 Leadership Programs Leadership Programs Leadership Development & Training Programs Leadership Experiences Leadership Framework Parent and Families Parent and Families Parent and Family Resources About Us ☰ Leadership Development & Training Programs Office of the Student Experience Leadership Programs Leadership Development & Training Programs Leadership Development & Training Programs Leadership Development Programs Leadership development programs are opportunities for you to learn more about leadership. Through these highly interactive programs, you will grow as a leader! Cultivate, A Leadership Think Tank Cultivate is a leadership development program for third- and fourth-year students. In this semester-long program, students will meet weekly to discuss readings based on the SMU Leadership Framework. In these discussions, students will gain a deeper understanding of themselves and their role as leaders in an individual, organizational, and community context. They will be able to bring their current experiences as campus leaders into the discussion as well as consider future leadership opportunities beyond graduation. Apply on Connect.SMU Emerging Leaders Program The Emerging Leaders program is a leadership development program for first-year, first semester students. In weekly meetings, you will explore on-campus leadership at SMU. Through hearing from guest speakers, hands-on activities, and discussions, you will learn about how your campus leadership experiences can prepare you to be a world changer. Emerging Leaders runs throughout the fall semester. Applications will be available on Connect.SMU in August. The Crain Leadership Endowment Fund generously supports this program. Apply on Connect.SMU Caswell Leadership Fellows http:In this year-long academic program, you will refine your leadership skills while planning and implementing an impact project. An impact project is something you are passionate about within the campus or Dallas community that you need seed funding to get started. As a Caswell Fellow, you will receive project funding up to $2,500, as well as complete weekly office hours where you will work on your project and participate in leadership workshops. Check out our past fellows' projects. The Dr. Jim Caswell Endowment for Leadership Development and Training generously supports this program. Follow these links to learn more about current and past Caswell Leadership Fellows' impact projects. Apply to be a Fellow! Caswell Leadership Coaches In the Caswell Leadership Coach Program, experienced student leaders engage in peer-to-peer leadership development to help all students become more effective within their SMU organizations. Coaches mentor their peers through individual meetings and leadership workshops as well as help their peers apply the 7 frames of the SMU Leadership Framework to their positions. The Dr. Jim Caswell Endowment for Leadership Development and Training generously supports this program. Meet our current coaches! Work with a Coach! Crain Leadership Launch Crain Leadership Launch is a leadership development program for student leaders who hold a distinguished leadership position at SMU and therefore impact the broader student experience. During the program, you will hear from the Division of Student Affairs Leadership Team about the expectations of positional leadership at this level as well as be recognized for your service to SMU. Crain Leadership Launch is held each April. The Crain Leadership Endowment Fund generously supports this program. Lone Star LeaderShape Institute The Lone Star LeaderShape Institute is a four-day retreat hosted by SMU, TCU, & Baylor each January before the spring semester. Students from each university explore what they want to do as leaders and who they want to be through a vision grounded in their deepest values. LeaderShape can help you make the most of your time on campus as a leader and beyond graduation. Apply on Connect.SMU Leadership Training Programs Leadership training programs exist for you to gain valuable skills that equip you to lead well in your organizations, on-campus employment, and beyond the Hilltop. Crain Leadership Summit The Crain Leadership Summit is a leadership training program for student organization leaders at SMU that are affiliated with the Division of Student Affairs and therefore impact the broader student experience. The Summit will provide training for you to lead your student organization well. Crain Leadership Summit is held at the beginning of the fall semester. The Crain Leadership Endowment Fund generously supports this program. Click to Participate in Crain Leadership Summit! Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share