Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF NURSING NURSING INFANT & EARLY CHILDHOOD MENTAL HEALTH Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 IECMH 433 Trauma in Early Childhood: Resilience in Relationship (5) I&S Focuses on early childhood trauma and on resilience through relationships. Uses an infant and early childhood mental health lens to explore adversity, resilience, historical trauma, and trauma-informed care. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: IECMH 433 IECMH 537 Development and Psychopathology: Parents and Infants (3) Spieker Provides an overview of typical social and emotional development and psychopathology in children ages three and younger. Demonstrates attachment relationships with parents and family to infant's development and psychopathology. Core course of Infant Mental Health Certificate program. Recommended: IECMH 548 Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: IECMH 537 IECMH 548 Frameworks in Infant an Early Childhood Mental Health (3) Review infant mental health (IMH) and early development from a developmental interdisciplinary perspective. Pays special attention to brain development, sensory integration, early communication, and emotion regulation. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: IECMH 548 IECMH 555 Relationship Based Mental Health Assessment of Young Children (3) Focuses on multi-disciplinary, diagnostic mental health observation and assessment of infants, toddlers, and preschoolers within the context of their primary relationships. Recommended: IECMH 548 Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: IECMH 555 IECMH 569 Reflective Practice And Consultation (2) Colleen O. Dillon, Susan J Spieker Focuses on reflective practice, consultation and supervision, distinct and core features of practice across disciplines providing infant mental health services to young children and families. Recommended: IECMH 548 Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: IECMH 569 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022