Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty & Staff Forms Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Students Enrollment Verification Grades OverviewGPA and Grading ScaleGrade ChangeFAQ Transcripts OverviewOfficialUnofficialLambuth UniversityFAQ Reverse Transfer FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA NotificationRelease of Student Education Record Student Right-to-Know Information Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM OverviewLate/Retroactive Withdrawal Self Service Guides Take Action View Calendars Order Transcripts View Notices Contact Us Home Registrar Students Registration Quick Guide Registration Quick Guide Here is a brief guide to online class registration that starts with logging into the myMemphis portal and takes you through reviewing your class schedule. Registration: Basic Steps Login to the portal with your Username and Password, the same combination used for UofM email. (If you have trouble getting into the portal, call the Helpdesk at 901.678.8888.) Find the Register for Classes link (on the Student page under Online Registration). This will take you to the Registration menu. The Registration menu contains links to these key registration functions plus a collection of help guides: Registration Status; Look Up Classes; Add or Drop Classes, and Concise Student Schedule. When selecting any of the registration functions, you will be prompted for a Term. Select the desired term and then click the Submit button. Click on Registration Status. Use this screen to: Verify your earliest date to register. Determine if you have any holds; if you do, scroll to the bottom of the screen and click View Holds to find out what you must do to remove the hold. You cannot register if you have a registration hold. Logout and clear any registration holds before attempting to register. Check for any permits issued to you. If you have a permit, make note of the CRN associated with the permit. Click on Look Up Classes and then the Advanced Search option to check out course offerings. Select options to refine your search, then click Class Search button at the bottom of the screen. Using the Search options, you can narrow or tailor your results (for example: courses offered at a particular campus, or online courses only, or courses taught by a particular instructor). Refer to Popular Lists and Tips pages to see what's possible, and experiment! When the results are displayed, make note of the CRNs of courses/sections you want. Click on Add or Drop Classes to register for classes. Note: All degree seeking students must be advised. Non-degree seeking students do not need to be advised. If You Are Degree Seeking and Have Been Cleared by Your Advisor to Register (or If You Are Non-Degree Seeking): You will see the Add or Drop Classes screen. Read the instructions and important information. Scroll to the bottom of the screen and enter your CRNs in the row of open blocks. Click Submit Changes. The screen will refresh and your courses will be listed. *Web Registered* will appear to the left of those courses you have successfully registered for. Courses you did not successfully register for will be listed below these, with a brief explanation of the problem. Note: Some students must file proof of MMR (measles, mumps, rubella) immunization with Student Health Services in order to register as full-time students. If you are such a student and have not filed your proof, you will be limited to part-time status until you do so. You will see the "measles" message after you click [Submit Changes], and you will notice that you were not enrolled in all the courses you selected. See: Immunization > MMR for information on submitting your proof. Refer to this list of common error messages. Adjust your classes as needed. If You Are Degree Seeking but Have NOT Been Cleared by Your Advisor to Register: You will get the Alternate PIN Verification page. Do not enter anything; logout instead. Then contact your advisor. Only your advisor can clear the Alternate PIN requirement. Once it is cleared, you will be able to register and will not see the Alternate PIN screen again during the semester. Assuming you do not encounter the Alternate PIN problem, click on Concise Student Schedule to review your personal class schedule after you have registered. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.