Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Poland | Meeting with Przemek Gacek, CEO of Grupa Pracuj Events Past Event CAA Poland | Meeting with Przemek Gacek, CEO of Grupa Pracuj Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo January 19, 2022 6:00 PM - 8:00 PM Europe/Warsaw Online As the year comes to an end, we would like to share news about our upcoming event in January. We're so happy to invite you to an online meeting with Przemek Gacek, CEO of Grupa Pracuj, a company recently listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. The event will take place on January 19th at 18:00 (CET). Przemek Gacek has been managing the fast-growing player for over 20 years already. He graduated from the University of Warsaw and finished an international program conducted with Columbia University (1996-1999). During this event, Przemek will discuss the demographic situation in Poland and its influence on the job market now and in the future. He will also talk about major trends related to the job market in Poland and Europe and share some memories related to the program with Columbia University. There will also be time for a chat with participants. Joanna Socha ('15 JRN), a VP of the Columbia Club of Poland, will moderate the conversation. Joanna is a business journalist contributing to international financial outlets, such as "Mergermarket," "Unquote," "Debtwire." She is also a founder of a women-oriented career platform, "W Insight." Please RSVP to the event by responding to this email. Then, closer to the date, we will provide you with Zoom details. In the meantime, please have a well-deserved rest during the Holidays, Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year Contact Information CAA Poland [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close