Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics Graduate Group 1 2 3 4 Previous Next Welcome - Viewing this on a Mobile Device? Switch your browser to Desktop Site/View! Catch the BMB trailer here! | Take a tour | BMB members share some research highlights Kim A. Sharp, PhD Chair The BMB Graduate Group has more than 100 world class faculty in the schools of Medicine, Arts & Sciences, Engineering, Dentistry, and Veterinary Medicine, and the affiliated institutions Children's Hospital of Philadelphia & the Wistar Institute. The faculty are passionate about Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, and passionate about sharing their knowledge with the next generation of Ph.D's and Ph.D/MD's. Our mission is to produce the next generation of scientists, scholars, educators and leaders in biomedical sciences. The BMB Graduate Group strongly encourages applications from under-represented minorities and students with disabilities. We partner with the School of Medicine and the University of Pennsylvania at large to provide a welcoming and supportive environment for these students. With the help of the university and medical school offices of diversity we built community, provide networking, peer support and mentoring, host annual symposia, and engage in outreach. With the help of Penn`s Office of Student Disabilities Services we provide extensive support for navigating Penn`s campus, providing accommodations, provide physical resources at the Weingarten Learning Center, and host an annual disability symposium, amongst other initiatives. The BMB Graduate Group offers interdisciplinary training through a rigorous but flexible curriculum, exposure to cutting edge research and unmatched laboratory and research instrumentation facilities. The graduate group draws support from its 'home' department of Biochemistry and Biophysics and the office of Biomedical Graduate Studies which runs admissions and helps administer BMB and the six other Ph.D programs centered in the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. For all the latest news check our twitter page News, Awards & Publications Congratulations to Yi-Wei Chang who was named an international fellow with the Catalysts Program with the EMBO JOurnal. Congratulations Congratulations to BMB Student, Matthew Martinez, of the Yi-Wei Chang Lab, who was awarded the inaugural Martin and Pamela Winter Infections Disease Fellowship for early career biomedical scientists Congratulations to BMB faculty member Gideon Dreyfuss who won the 2022 RNA Society Lifetime Achievement in Science Award Congratulations Sara Cherry was named to the 2021 Class of American Association for the Advancement of Science Fellows. Congratulations to BMB students who were recently awarded their Ph.D degrees! Laura Agosto, PhD, Kiara Berrios, PhD, Sarah Bond, PhD, Carl Fluck, PhD, Krystal Haislop, PhD, Richard Lauman, PhD, Mariel Mendoza, PhD, Sanjula Wickramasinghe, PhD View more Seminars & Events Pictures from the joint B&B Dept. and BMB graduate group Mini Symposium, held 26th Feb, 2021 Group Photo Happy Hour View more NEW BMB Faculty Spotlight We are happy to welcome two new faculty to Penn and BMB Greg Bowman, PhD Greg Bowman will be joining us July 1, 2022, as a PIK (Penn-Integrates-Knowledge) Professor with appointments in B&B and in Bioengineering. He will be located on the 10th floor of Stellar-Chance. His lab combines computational modeling and wet-bench experiments to study protein dynamics and the functional impact of sequence variants. Lijun Zhou, PhD Lijun Zhou will be joining us January 1, 2023 as a new Assistant Professor in the department and a member of the new Institute for RNA Innovation. Her lab will be located on the 3rd floor of CRB. Lijun studies RNA enzymology in lipid membranes, non-natural RNA chemistry and the interaction of RNA with lipids and proteins. BMB Faculty Spotlight Cornelius Taabazuing, PhD Cornelius Taabazuing's lab is interested in the molecular mechanisms of pyroptotic and apoptotic cell death and how cell death impacts immunogenicity. Kara Bernstein, PhD Kara Bernstein is moving from the University of Pittsburgh with her lab, arriving Summer 2022. She is a leader in the field of DNA damage. Aaron Timperman, PhD Aaron Timperman Research Interests: Nanotechnology, Proteomics, Lab on a Chip. His lab is on the 10th floor of Stellar-Chance. Contact Us Kelli McKenna, Program Coordinator 246A Anatomy-Chemistry Building, 3620 Hamilton Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104-6073 mckennak@upenn.edu 215-898-4639 Directions © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania