Skip to main content Skip to main navigation SearchMenu Baylor>Search Find Site By A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Websites starting with 'P': Parking & Transportation Information regarding parking and transportation on the main Baylor campus in Waco. Pastoral Care Pastoral Care is a ministry of compassion and guidance offered by someone trained in matters of faith and the soul. Given the many challenges faced in a university setting, students, staff, and faculty can benefit by speaking with a minister from time to time. Questions need asking. Directions need discerning. Wounds need healing. Our chaplains at the Spiritual Life Center and in our residence halls are available to offer the care and guidance you need. Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation is home to Baylor's Hankamer School of Business. Completed in 2015, this modern facility features a highly corporate and sustainable business environment and is received the LEED Gold certification. Paul L. Foster Success Center In the context of the rigorous academic environment at Baylor, the Paul L. Foster Success Center (PLFSC) provides an environment for all students that is challenging, invigorating, enriching, and supportive. It fosters deep engagement in the academic community as well as fulfillment of personal goals and aspirations. PawPrints he print management system for student printing on the Baylor University campus Pay Your Bill Baylor University Student Account Suite. This site is a 24x7 service offered to students and their families for viewing bills, making payments and managing their student account. Payroll Office The purpose of Baylor University's Payroll Office (part of the Controller's Office) is to provide accurate and timely payments to students, faculty, staff and retirees, including accurate calculation of leaves, payroll deductions and federal taxes. PCI Compliance The Payment Card Industry (PCI) Security Standards Council has developed a set of financial and information technology standards, called Payment Card Information Data Security Standards (PCI-DSS), to protect credit cardholders' data. These standards govern all merchants and organizations that collect, process, store, or transmit credit card information. Penland Residence Hall Personnel Policies Personnel policies. Phi Beta Kappa The purpose of Phi Beta Kappa is to recognize and encourage scholarship in the liberal arts and sciences. Phi Beta Kappa is the nation's oldest scholastic honor society and the first American society to have a Greek-letter name. The first chapter was founded on December 5, 1776, at the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia. The Baylor University chapter (Zeta of Texas) of Phi Beta Kappa was chartered in 1976 and is one of eleven chapters in the state. Philosophy The home page of the department of Philosophy. Physics, Department of Graduate and undergraduate students in physics at Baylor University experience the benefits of a major American university, large enough to support a superior academic program while still allowing opportunities only available within a close-knit community of scholars. Piper Center for Family Studies and Child Development The Piper Center for Family Studies and Child Development welcomes all children from ages two months to five years. The purpose of the Piper CDC is to serve as a laboratory for all the majors in the Department of Family and Consumer Sciences including Child and Family Studies, Fashion Design, Fashion Merchandising, General Family and Consumer Sciences with or without the option to teach, Interior Design and Nutrition. Political Science, Department of The home page of the Political Science department. Portuguese The home page of the Portuguese language departments. Pre-Law Located in the Paul L. Foster Success Center, Baylor Pre-Law is a pre-professional program designed to provide advising, programming and resources to students of all majors who are considering a career in law. Prehealth Care Programs At this site you will find specific information on all of the prehealth care programs offered at Baylor University, as well as links to other related Web resources. Premiere Premiere is an all-day Saturday event designed just for prospective freshmen and transfer students. Parents are welcome, too! It’s a great time to explore campus, experience college life in person, and ask any questions you might have about Baylor. Presidential Search Baylor University has embarked on a national effort to select the university's 15th president. The next president of Baylor University will lead efforts to further strengthen Baylor's national reputation for excellence in higher education while building upon its rich tradition of Christian commitment. Throughout the presidential search process, this web site will serve as an interactive communications channel, providing information about the work of the search committees as well as an opportunity for you to share your feedback, ideas and suggestions with those engaged in the search process. Principia: A Journal of Classical Education Principia: A Journal of Classical Education is a peer-reviewed scholarly journal that publishes articles, policy research, editorials, and reviews related to the history, theory, practice, and pedagogy of classic liberal arts education and contemporary classical schools, colleges, and universities. Pro Futuris On May 11, 2012, the Baylor Board of Regents adopted Pro Futuris: a Strategic Vision for Baylor University. Developed over the course of two years, Pro Futuris reflects the input and wisdom of the extended Baylor community. Procurement Services The mission of Procurement Services is to provide value, quality, and customer satisfaction in our services while maintaining the highest level of professionalism, ethics, and integrity in support of Baylor University. Professional Education Baylor Professional Education offers a variety of degrees, certificates and courses to help professionals improve their skills, transition to a new career or become an industry expert. You will take classes in an innovative educational environment designed by world class Baylor faculty. Professional Education Baylor Professional Education offers a variety of degrees, certificates and courses to help professionals improve their skills, transition to a new career or become an industry expert. The department also provides administrative support for students in these programs. Prospective Students The home page for all prospective students provides links to the various websites providing information on undergraduate, graduate, law and seminary admissions as well as financial aid and other pertinent information. Pruit Memorial Symposium The Pruit Memorial Symposium brings the perspective of the Christian intellectual tradition to contemporary issues of common concern. Since 2013, this annual symposium has focused on the tradition of American black sacred music in conjunction with the Black Gospel Music Restoration project of the Baylor Libraries. Click Explore to learn more! Psychology & Neuroscience Psychology and Neuroscience at Baylor University has degree programs leading to the bachelor\'s degree in two undergraduate majors--Psychology (B.A. and B.S. degrees) and in Neuroscience (B.S. degree). The department also offers graduate training at the doctoral level leading to two degrees--the Psy.D. in Clinical Psychology and the Ph.D. in Neuroscience. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678