Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Internships Home Jobs and Internships Internships Jobs and Internships Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Find a Meaningful Opportunity An internship is an opportunity to explore career possibilities and gain valuable professional experience while pursuing your degree. Internships can take a variety of forms—from traditional paid or unpaid opportunities at organizations to other opportunities like part-time jobs or project-based work. Your path is unique and the types of experiences you pursue will depend on your goals. The Career Center is here to partner with you and the resources below will help guide your internship search. Get Started Join a Career Cluster Browse our cluster pages to find resources tailored to your industry of interest and join a cluster to receive customized emails. Connect with Alumni Use Eagle Exchange to build your network and connect with alumni to gain insight about a career field of interest. Explore Data Use our Summer Experience Dashboard to explore the types of experiences Boston College students completed over the past two years. Meet with a Career Coach Schedule an appointment with our industry specialists to discuss your internship search strategy and build a plan of action. Connect with Students We have compiled a Summer Experience Database to help connect you with other BC students to learn about internship experiences. Use the database to find students who completed internships that you may be interested in and reach out to them to discuss their summer experience. Summer Experience Database To access: Verify that you are logged in with your BC email address. Find an Internship Internship Listings Search Strategies Hiring Timelines Unpaid Internships & Academic Credit Alternatives to Internships Handshake As you look for opportunities, start with Handshake, our centralized platform where employers post positions for Boston College students. All of the top employers are hiring on Handshake, including the Fortune 500, nonprofits, startups, and more. You can also find campus recruitment opportunities. Our guide will help you set up your profile and make the most of your Handshake account. Handshake External Job Boards While it is highly recommended that you use Handshake as your primary platform to search for an internship, there are a variety of other online job boards that may also serve as helpful resources. Below are a few general job boards to start with. You can find industry-specific resources on our career cluster pages. WayUp wayup.com A platform for early career professionals to explore opportunities, receive advice, and get discovered by employers LinkedIn linkedin.com Explore listings on the world's largest professional network Indeed indeed.com Job and internship postings from across the U.S. Glassdoor glassdoor.com Job and internship postings with company reviews, salary reports, and more Idealist idealist.org A job board for a nonprofit/government job search Jop Well jopwell.com A career advancement platform for Black, Latinx, and Native American students and professionals LinkUp linkup.com An index of global job listings B-Work bwork.com B Work connects purpose driven jobseekers with meaningful work at companies that are using business as a force for good GoinGlobal goinglobal.com GoinGlobal helps new and experienced job seekers find opportunities both at home and abroad Intern From Home internfromhome.com Student-run platform that connects students with startups, non-profits, and other companies for virtual internships CEI Internships CEI Internships CEI Internships is composed of 13 internship directories, including Human Rights; Women's Rights; Washington Internships In Law and Policy; Sports; Advertising; Museums; and International Affairs. To Access: username: BostonCollege, password: GoEagles If any potential employer requires Boston College to sign an agreement with respect to your employment, please contact Biz Bracher at elizabeth.bracher@bc.edu. Develop a Search Plan Develop a plan that includes your target career field, ideal geographic location(s), ideal start date, what type of organization you are seeking in terms of size and culture. In addition, we encourage you to set goals for yourself as well as dates for achieving those goals. If you would like help with this process, we encourage you to make an appointment to discuss your goals with a career coach. Research Target Employers Most job openings aren’t advertised broadly. They’re usually posted on the organization’s website. Identify promising employers by checking Handshake, working your contacts, checking sites like Vault and LinkedIn, and reading trade websites and magazines. Then go to those employers’ websites to browse job openings. Track Your Progress Because you will likely be at different stages of the application process with various organizations at a given time, developing a process to keep track of all the details is key. Keep a spreadsheet that lists the organization, position title, links to the organization’s website and job description, date you submitted your application, date of follow up, date of interview(s), and other pertinent notes or details. Sample Tracking Spreadsheet Understand Hiring Timelines Every career field follows unique recruiting cycles and general hiring timelines. To succeed in your internship search, you need to be aware of the recruiting cycles for your industry of choice. Below we provide information that can serve as a guideline for your own unique internship search based on when BC students have been hired in the past. Hiring Timelines by Career Cluster Hiring timelines are based on survey data from Summer 2021. Industry Before September September–December January–March March–May Business, Consulting, and Finance 21% 31% 28% 20% Communication, Arts, and Media 7% 13% 39% 41% Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service 6% 6% 33% 54% Government, Law, and Public Policy 4% 4% 45% 47% Healthcare and Nursing 10% 8% 46% 35% Science, Technology, and Engineering 6% 11% 50% 32% Unpaid Internships You may wish you pursue an internship with an organization that is unable to provide a salary. Unpaid internships are common in industries such as arts, media, government, nonprofit, scientific research, and more. If you are going to consider pursuing an unpaid internship, you want to make sure it is a meaningful experience. The Fact #71: Internship Programs Under The Fair Labor Standards Act will be a helpful resource to assist you during your search. The following list provides criteria you should be looking for in an unpaid experience: The opportunity will be a learning experience. There are clearly defined learning objectives and goals. There is supervision and guidance provided by a professional with expertise. The opportunity has a defined beginning and end. The skills and knowledge you acquire will be transferable to other professional settings. Eagle Intern Fellowship Students with demonstrated financial need who are offered an unpaid internship for the summer may be eligible to apply for the Career Center's Eagle Intern Fellowship, which provides funding for unpaid internship experiences. Applications are accepted from January to May. Academic Credit In some cases, you can earn academic credit at Boston College for an internship. There are a variety of processes to get credit for an internship. You may apply for one credit for an internship. The internship can be paid or unpaid, but must be 50+ hours in length and is graded as Pass or Fail. Only one such credit will be counted toward the 120 credits required for graduation. To get academic credit for an internship, you must complete the Internship Approval Form, have it filled out by your supervisor and bring it to Academic Advising. Once the supervisor confirms that you completed the internship, Academic Advising will then indicate that you have passed the course on your record. Occasionally, employers will ask for proof that the University will allow the internship to be taken for credit. If this is the case, you should bring the internship listing to Academic Advising. If the internship satisfies the criteria, you will receive a letter indicating that the University does allow the internship to be taken for credit. Some academic programs may offer academic credit for an internship, so you will need to contact your academic department for specifics of how many credits you may earn and any other requirements. Below are links for more information for some BC majors. If your major is not listed here, contact your department anyway. Biology Communications English Carroll School of Management: Students may receive a one-credit practicum for unpaid work in the business world. You will need to complete internship paperwork with your supervisor and submit it to the Senior Associate Dean’s Office. Students will need to work a minimum of 10 hours per week in order to get credit for an internship. You may get credit for an unpaid internship twice during your four years here at Boston College. Alternatives to Internships A formal internship is not the only way to gain professional experience. Due to economic limitations and the impact of COVID-19, many BC students need to pursue other types of opportunities to explore careers, gain experience, build skills, and boost their resumes. Review the list below to learn about a few alternatives to internships that you may wish to pursue during your time at BC. We also encourage you to schedule an appointment with a career coach to discuss your options and design a plan to meet your goals. Career Center Summer Programs The Career Center’s Praxis Summer Program is a free comprehensive, self-guided summer career program designed to help you recognize and develop the skills most highly sought after by employers. This week-by-week guide will help you reflect on and strengthen these skills in order to give you a competitive advantage when applying to jobs and graduate school in the future. We also offer Trivium, a similar program designed to meet the needs of graduate students. Praxis Summer Program Trivium Program for Graduate Students Part-Time Jobs Working at a part-time job on campus or at another organization provides you the opportunity to gain real-world experience in addition to earning a paycheck. Whether or not it is directly related to your career aspirations, you will build skills that are sought after by all employers, such as leadership, communication, teamwork, critical thinking, and professionalism. Part-time jobs also demonstrate your work ethic. Boston College Student Employment Project-Based Work Projects are short-term experiences that offer an opportunity to boost your resume/portfolio, build skills, and grow your professional network. Through Eagle Exchange you can find listings for projects to apply to. The Forage platform offers hypothetical projects that you can complete to learn more about working in a specific field. You can also seek out freelance projects by promoting your own work through a website portfolio or social media platform. Eagle Exchange Alumni Projects Forage (previously InsideSherpa) Job Shadows Job shadows or externships are short-term experiences where you follow a professional throughout their daily activities. They offer an opportunity to explore a field of interest and make valuable connections at an organization. The Career Center offers a formal job shadow program. You can also use Eagle Exchange to make connections with alumni and request to shadow them. Alumni Job Shadow Program Eagle Exchange Research Research is a popular option among BC students. Whether you're conduting your own research or assisting with an existing project, research experience is highly valued by employers. Boston College offers opportunites to engage in research in most fields. You can also participate in research at external organizations or through fellowships. Boston College Undergraduate Research Opportunities Volunteering Volunteering is another popular option among BC students. It is not only a rewarding experience, it also provides you the opportunity to build skills and make connections at an organization. For many nonprofit organizations, volunteering is a cruicial step to being hired for a full-time position. Volunteering also demonstrates your interests and values to a potential employer. Boston College Volunteer and Service Learning Center Skill-Building Courses Skill-building courses can help you build technical skills that are sought after by employers. These are typically separate from your Boston College coursework. In some cases, you’ll get a certification by completing the course or program to add to your resume. Below are a few popular options. Depending on the type of skill you want to learn, you will need to do research to determine what program is best. Coursera LinkedIn Learning Google Analytics Academy Microsoft 365 Training Make the Most of Your Internship Before Your Internship Begins Research the organization. You will meet many people during your first few days on the internship. Understanding the organization’s mission, structure, and recent news will help you navigate conversations and make a great first impression. Set goals. Take time to reflect on what you hope to accomplish this summer. Write down your goals and what you expect to gain from this experience. Keep this list for when you meet with your supervisor at the beginning of your internship. Look over the internship description. Re-familiarize yourself with the skills and tasks that will be expected of you. Write down any questions you have about your role. Make sure you can summarize your responsibilities in a few sentences for when you introduce yourself to other members of your team. Plan your commute. Make sure you are comfortable with where you need to go and how you will get there. If you have never been to the location before, it is helpful to do a practice run before your first day. If the internship is virtual, designate a quiet place to work before your first day. Prepare what you will wear. Verify that you understand the dress code for the organization. If your hiring manager did not clarify this already, reach out to ask what attire is expected. It is better to be dressed more professionally than casually on your first day. You can always adjust your attire based on the environment you experience. If you need assistance, check out our Career Closet to access free professional attire. At the Start of Your Internship Meet with your supervisor. It is important to meet early with your supervisor so you can get to know each other and understand their expectations. Make sure you are clear on your day-to-day responsibilities. Bring your list of personal goals to share with them as you discuss and align those goals with the goals for your internship. Get to know everyone. Meet as many people as you can in the organization. Strive to have meaningful conversations so you can build strong relationships. Not only will it help you have a better internship experience, it will also help you in the future when you need recommendations or referrals. During Your Internship Meet with your supervisor regularly. It is important to meet with your supervisor regularly to check-in on your work and ask questions. Request feedback to ensure you are on the right track. If your supervisor does not schedule regular meetings, reach out to request to meet with them. Be active. Even if things are slow, find ways to keep busy. Check in with your supervisor, offer your help to another member of your team, or come up with projects that you could work on in your down time and present them to your supervisor. Employers value team members that take initiative. Take pride in your work. No matter what you are asked to do, you want to do it well. Take on assigned tasks with enthusiasm. Make sure you pay attention to instructions and details. This is how you will stand out as an intern and gain respect from your team. Stay organized and manage your time well. Develop a system to manage and prioritize your tasks. Communicate regularly with your supervisor and team to keep them updated on the status of your work. If you are overwhelmed or running late on a task, it is better to communicate this in advance. If you need assistance with developing an organizational system, ask your supervisor or trusted colleague for advice. Be professional. Be punctual, act with integrity, take responsibility for your actions, and be respectful. Professionalism is necessary for success in the workplace. Meet with a Career Coach. Our coaches are available all summer to help you make the most of your internship experience. If your internship isn't going as planned or you have an issue or question, schedule an appointment with a coach to discuss. At the End of Your Internship Get feedback on your performance. There may be a formal review process at your organization where you can get feedback from your supervisor on your performance. If there isn’t, ask your supervisor for feedback so you can learn what you’ve done well and where you need to improve. Ask colleagues for references. Before you finish your internship, line up your list of references. Ask your supervisor and relevant colleagues if they would be willing to be listed as references for you in the future. You can also ask them to write letters of recommendation for you. Say thank you. Show your appreciation for your supervisor and colleagues who helped you throughout your internship. Send thank you notes/emails or say it in person on your last day. Be specific about what you learned from the experience and from them. After Your Internship Reflect on the experience. What did you enjoy about the internship? What did you learn? What skills did you gain? What would you do differently or what do you wish had been different about the experience? Reflect on these questions to help you prepare for your next steps. Meet with a career coach to debrief and discuss what comes next for you. Update your resume. Add this experience and any relevant new skills to your resume. Do this early so you are ready to find your next experience. Have your updates reviewed during the Career Center’s drop-in hours. Stay in touch. Continue to nurture the relationships you made during the summer. Send periodic email updates. If they are local, invite them to meet up for a coffee. Virtual Internships Virtual internships are more common than ever due to the pandemic. Even as offices start to open back up, it’s likely that at least some virtual internships are here to stay. You’ll need to be prepared to succeed. Tips for a Successful Virtual Internship 2020-2021 Summer Experience Dashboard From the Career Center Blog No Summer Internship? No Problem! 5 Ways to Have a Productive Summer Beyond an Internship While internships are a great way to gain skills and explore a career field, many students seem to think that May 02, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Should I Disclose My Disability During a Job Search? Many students with a disability struggle with the question of disclosure during the job and internship search process. “Will disclosure April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Science, Technology & Engineering The Eagle Intern Fellowship (EIF) provides financial support to Boston College undergraduates with demonstrated financial need who obtain summer internships April 14, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Making a Decision on Job Offers “Congratulations, our company is pleased to offer you the position!” Receiving communication like this, whether via email or a phone, April 11, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Government and Intelligence What exactly is an internship? When browsing internship postings, it can be difficult to imagine the day-to-day work and potential April 06, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam How many applications do you need to submit to land an internship/job? We wish we could tell you that it takes exactly 45.63 applications to get a job or internship, but the April 04, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam No Summer Internship? No Problem! 5 Ways to Have a Productive Summer Beyond an Internship While internships are a great way to gain skills and explore a career field, many students seem to think that May 02, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Should I Disclose My Disability During a Job Search? Many students with a disability struggle with the question of disclosure during the job and internship search process. “Will disclosure April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Science, Technology & Engineering The Eagle Intern Fellowship (EIF) provides financial support to Boston College undergraduates with demonstrated financial need who obtain summer internships April 14, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Share Your Thoughts Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College