Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Main Navigation Our Story Show Extended Division of Student Affairs Welcome Leadership Team Organizational Chart Our Purpose Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Assessment Programs Professional Development Staff of the Month Program Publications Faculty Resource Page Student Employment University Employment Contact Us California State University, Fullerton 2018-2023 Strategic Plan Branding Campus News Donate Facts & Figures College Access and Career Pathways Engagement and Well-Being Identity and Belonging Virtual Student Services Associated Students Inc., CSUF Titan Athletics Academic Appeals Title IX and Gender Equity Show Extended Notice of Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Gender or Sex Hispanic-Serving Institution Initiatives College Access and Career Pathways The area of College Access and Career Pathways consists of departments dedicated to building a pipeline of college success from outreach, admission, funding their education, community engagement, and career development. Office of Admissions The Office of Admissions is responsible for determining student eligibility for admission to the university. Career Center The Career Center prepares Titans for future career success, providing resources and guidance to help with professional growth and transformation. Center for Internships & Community Engagement The Center for Internships & Community Engagement (CICE) creates cooperative linkages between higher education, community organizations and professional offices, striving to create high quality, community-based experiences that benefit students, partner sites, and communities. Educational Partnerships Educational Partnerships provides opportunities aimed at helping students progress onto college and be successful throughout the higher education pipeline. Office of Financial Aid The Office of Financial Aid handles all matters related to monetary disbursement, in order to help students pay for their educational expenses. Orientation Orientation prepares and supports students during the transition from high school and/or another college or university to Cal State Fullerton. Outreach and Recruitment Outreach and Recruitment serves prospective and incoming students, and any other interested parties in the information seeking and application process, as it relates to the California State University system and Cal State Fullerton specifically. This site is maintained by Division of Student Affairs. Last Published 4/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact danielramirez@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.