<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Perspectives Perspectives Sebastian Vargas MS/MBA 2022 Video Video Home Region Bogota, Colombia Undergrad Education University of Florida, BS, 2015 Previous Experience Procter & Gamble, Kraft Foods, Symrise HBS Activities MS/MBA Student Association co-president; Coding, Analytics, & Machine Learning (CAML) Club VP of technical learning “The HBS community opens your mind to possibilities and helps you to think critically about which to take.” Why did you choose this path at this point? Before coming to HBS, I worked for five years as an R&D engineer at Procter and Gamble (P&G). I loved my time at P&G because I worked in teams that looked at new-to-the-world technologies and had fantastic mentors and colleagues! Throughout my career at P&G, however, I learned that even the greatest technologies can fail without the right business model and organizations to support them. I knew I wanted to be a leader in technology so I thought an MBA would be a perfect way to complement my technical background and experience. Once I saw that HBS offered a dual degree MS/MBA option with the Harvard School of Engineering & Applied Sciences (SEAS), I knew I had found exactly what I was looking for. Coming to HBS is like... ...learning how to scuba dive! At first, the weight of the equipment, its fit, the nervousness of running out of air, and lack of visibility feel uncomfortable and uncontrollable. But, after a few dives, you find what works for you and the conditions feel familiar. This allows you to enjoy the vastness of the ocean, the plethora of life hidden under the sea, and start to learn about yourself as you listen to your breathing, all while enjoying the moment and uncertainty of what is ahead with those around you. Being part of the HBS community is like... ...finding the map to all unknown paths in your world. The community opens your mind to possibilities and helps you to think critically about which to take. Ultimately, it is up to you to embark on and complete the journey. As a kid, what did you want to be when you grew up? From an early age, I was good with computers and loved gadgets, so I wanted to be a software engineer. Growing up in Colombia, however, I never thought this path was possible for me because in movies, software engineers were always portrayed as hacking into complex systems from an early age. I was nowhere near that level. Plus, I had no role model that I could talk to about this path. I finally settled on chemical engineering after my first internship in the US at Kraft Foods, but I regret not pursuing my teenage dream. Later in life, I was able to get closer to my childhood dream by learning Python and transitioning from chemical to digital research and development at Procter & Gamble. What is your favorite childhood memory? On my ninth birthday, my parents took my friends, cousins, and me to a rollercoaster park in Bogota called Mundo Aventura. The details of the day escape me, but my recollection is one of unbounded fun and happiness – everyone I loved was present that day. When I woke up the next day I recall asking, for the first time, if it was possible to turn back time. Another group of fun memories is thinking about my dad cheering for me during soccer matches. Who is one person from your life that you admire the most today? It’s two individuals for me: my mom and dad. They divorced when I was two years old and through their distinct lives built the core of who I am. My mom’s courage to uproot her life in Colombia and migrate to the US opened the door for me to migrate when I graduated high school. Her tenacity taught me to never give up, and to work hard for what I want. My dad is the most unconditional human being I have met. His love and support have been the trampoline for any venture I’ve decided to embark on. Without my dad, I could not have accomplished what I have. His dedication to those he loves has taught me about diligence and service. What’s the best thing about your hometown? I miss the go-with-the-flow nature of Colombia. I think it is a mentality that builds resourcefulness and creates an atmosphere primed to withstand and overcome adversity. On a more personal level, the best thing about my hometown is my family and childhood friends. Topics Consumer Product Goods Engineering Technology Home Region Bogota, Colombia Undergrad Education University of Florida, BS, 2015 Previous Experience Procter & Gamble, Kraft Foods, Symrise HBS Activities MS/MBA Student Association co-president; Coding, Analytics, & Machine Learning (CAML) Club VP of technical learning Topics Consumer Product Goods Engineering Technology ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College