HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation HOME DIVISIONS Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Healthy Campus HEALTH TOPICS ADHD Alcohol and Other Drugs Antibiotics Body Image Building Social Connections Fitness Interpersonal Violence Mental Health Nutrition Social Media and Internet Use Sexual Health Sleep Spring Break Safety Stress Suicide Sustainibility Tobacco Wellness When to See a Provider CONTACT ABOUT POLICIES & RECORDS Advance Directives Diversity Eligibility Health Fee Privacy Practice Records & Confidentiality Rights & Responsibilities Insurance and Billing Student Health Insurance Plan Clemson University offers a comprehensive Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP), administered by BlueCross BlueShield (BCBS) of South Carolina. The SHIP is available to eligible students, legal spouses and dependents of students at competitive premiums. Student Health Services, located in Redfern Health Center, is an in-network provider for the SHIP. Claims are filed in-house. The Pharmacy at Redfern is a preferred pharmacy for the SHIP; enrollees have no deductible and lower copays. Blue CareOnDemand Overview for Mandatory Students Overview for Voluntary Students Enrollment Activation is open from April 25 - May 27, 2022. Clemson University Student Health Insurance Website: clemson.myahpcare.com Undergraduate Students Undergraduate domestic students are not required to have health insurance. If you want to enroll in the SHIP, please follow the instructions for Voluntary Student on the SHIP website: clemson.myahpcare.com If you are an undergraduate international student, please view the drop-down box below. Graduate and International Students Health insurance is REQUIRED for the following students who are considered Mandatory Students: Graduate students enrolled in nine or more credit hours on the main campus in Clemson Graduate students classified as graduate assistants (GAs) at all campus locations (GAs receive a per-semester student insurance subsidy when enrolled in the SHIP). All F-1 and J-1 international students If you fall into one of these categories, you are charged for the SHIP on your bill in iROAR. Please follow the steps found in the "Activate Enrollment" drop-down box below. You may submit a waiver if you have alternate insurance coverage that meets University requirements. If you do not fall into one of these categories and are not charged for the SHIP on your bill in iROAR, you can still enroll in the SHIP as a Voluntary Student. Please note: Check your bill in iROAR at the beginning of the semester and after any changes to your schedule. Changes to your schedule can cause the insurance charge to drop off or be added your account. Activate Enrollment If you are considered to be a Mandatory Student (students required to have health insurance and are charged for the SHIP on their bill in iROAR) and you do not submit a waiver, you must complete the steps below to activate your enrollment. This can only be done during the open enrollment period. Register for classes and wait 48 hours. When it’s been 48 hours since you registered for classes, visit clemson.myahpcare.com. Click on the link for "Mandatory Students" and follow the steps. Waiver Requirements and Forms Waiver Requirements Domestic Graduate Students Waiver Requirements International Students Visiting Scholar Enrollment Form Contact the Insurance and Billing Office at Redfern The Insurance and Billing Office is located in rooms G-22 and G-23 in Redfern Health Center (when you enter Redfern, proceed downstairs and follow the directional signage). To contact the Insurance and Billing Office, call 864-656-9493 or email RedfernInsBilling@clemson.edu. Payment and Insurance Billing Payment for services not covered by the university health fee is expected at the time of service. Students not paying the university health fee are charged for office visits. Cash, personal check, HSA, TigerStripe, Visa, MasterCard, Discover, American Express or Apple Pay are accepted. Outstanding balances can be paid online through CU Marketplace (amount owed can be found in MyHealth-e under 'Account Summary'). Students who want parents/guardians to have access to billing information should complete the Authorization for Release of Information form. Pharmacy Insurance We file as an in-network provider for most pharmacy insurance plans. Please use our online form to enter your pharmacy insurance card information. You may also complete the Pharmacy Prescription Card Information Form and fax or drop it off at the pharmacy in Redfern Health Center. Unpaid balances will be transferred to the student's University tuition and fees bill at the end of each semester. We only file Medicaid and Medicare for pharmacy. Please notify pharmacy staff if your Medicaid plan only covers family planning. Medical Insurance We courtesy file for medical services as an out-of-network provider for most commercial medical insurance plans. Insurance cards can be uploaded to MyHealth-e. You are responsible for knowing what your plan covers. Medicaid and Medicare We are not a Medicaid or Medicare provider and cannot submit medical claims for reimbursement (we only file Medicaid and Medicare for pharmacy; please notify pharmacy staff if your Medicaid plan only covers family planning). If you need assistance with finding a local Medicaid/Medicare provider, call the Insurance and Billing Office: 864-656-3561. Charges Not Paid by Insurance Patients are responsible for any charges not paid by their insurance plan. You will be notified of your balance after insurance has processed either by a bill in the mail or secure message in MyHealth-e. You may view the patient balance on the MyHealth-e portal by clicking on 'Account Summary'. From the 'Account Summary' page, there is a link to pay via CU Marketplace. Right to Request Insurance Not Be Filed Any patient has the right to request a certain visit be excluded from filing. To do so, just tell a Student Health Services staff member that you do not want insurance filed for that day. You will then need to visit the Insurance and Billing Office (located in rooms G-22 and G-23 in the basement of Redfern) to complete the request and make sure the claim does not get filed. Price List Health Fee University policy requires all students registered for six or more credit hours (three hours during each summer term) to pay the university health fee. Learn More About the Health Fee SUMMARY – Health Fee and Insurance Coverage HEALTH FEE COVERED Office visits with physicians, nurse practitioners, nurses and health promotion professionals at no additional cost Counseling and Psychological Services including individual, couples and group sessions, workshops, online treatment programs, case management and crisis intervention After-hours nurse line: 864-656-2233, option 2 MUSC Health Virtual Urgent Care available 24/7 and free visits for Clemson University and Bridge to Clemson students physically present in the state of South Carolina (students may be charged for labs, x-rays, pharmaceuticals, etc.) Health and wellness promotion and prevention programs, presentations and resources from Healthy Campus Surveillance and reporting of infectious disease threats Emergency planning and response Campus public health policy consultation Click here to learn more about the health fee. NOT COVERED Medications/prescriptions, over-the-counter products and supplies Laboratory and X-ray services Psychiatry Procedures (i.e., wart treatment, ear irrigation, laceration repair) Pre-employment, annual GYN and routine physical exams Durable Medical Equipment INSURANCE IN-NETWORK Most pharmacy insurance Clemson University Student Health Insurance Plan OUT-OF-NETWORK Medical insurance Questions? To contact the Insurance and Billing Office at Redfern Health Center, call 864-656-3561 or email RedfernInsBilling@clemson.edu. Make a Payment – CU Marketplace International Student Insurance. (n.d). Overview of the US Healthcare System for International Students. Retrieved from URL CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster