Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content News Contact Us Experts Latest News Latest News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Broadcast Studio Research ☰ Featured News SMU News Featured News Dallas Morning News Publisher Grant Moise to deliver SMU’S Mat 14 Commencement Address Dallas Morning News Publisher Grant Moise to Deliver SMU's Commencement Address The outdoor ceremony, scheduled for 9 a.m. at Gerald J. Ford Stadium, will be streamed live. April 08, 2022 Grant Moise, publisher and president of the Dallas Morning News DALLAS (SMU) – Grant Moise, publisher and president of the Dallas Morning News, will be the featured speaker at SMU’s May Commencement Convocation on Saturday, May 14. The outdoor ceremony, scheduled for 9 a.m. at Gerald J. Ford Stadium, will be streamed live at https://www.smu.edu/live. “There are few executive-level jobs more challenging than guiding a major metropolitan news organization in an era of constant change and competition,” said SMU President R. Gerald Turner. “Our students are launching into a world that reflects change with every news cycle, and which questions the definition of truth. Grant will have much to share about the need for resilience, adaptability, and focus.” Moise, a veteran digital media executive, was promoted to lead the Dallas Morning News in 2018 after working there in various capacities for over a decade. He was senior vice president of business development and niche products from 2013 to 2017, where he oversaw mergers and acquisitions and was instrumental in aligning each of the new businesses into the paper’s operations. In that capacity Moise also ran various related businesses owned or operated by The News, including magazines, Spanish-language newspapers, and digital startups. Prior to that, he worked as vice president of digital, revamping the paper’s digital presence. Over the course of Moise’s career, he has worked for Tribune Media, CBS, and the Colorado Rockies Baseball Club. A native of New Mexico, Moise has a bachelor’s degree in journalism from the University of Kansas and an MBA from Texas Christian University. Moise serves on the boards of SMU’s Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility, Providence Christian School of Texas, the News Media Alliance, and the Dallas Citizens Council. ### SMU is the nationally ranked global research university in the dynamic city of Dallas. SMU’s alumni, faculty and more than 12,000 students in eight degree-granting schools demonstrate an entrepreneurial spirit as they lead change in their professions, communities and the world. SMU News Broadcast Studio Contact Us SMU Research Blog Experts News Archives Featured News Research Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share