Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Bush Center SMU-Bush Center Partnerships Center for Presidential History at SMU Tower Center Resources ☰ The George W. Bush Presidential Center and SMU SMU The George W. Bush Presidential Center and SMU SMU-Bush Center Partnerships SMU-Bush Center Partnerships The resources of the Bush Center provide unique learning experiences for our students, as well as research opportunities for our faculty and scholars around the world. Few students have the privilege of attending college with the historic resources of a Presidential Library on their campus, and the Bush presidency represents a unique time in the nation’s history. We’re grateful that President and Mrs. Bush chose SMU to host these resources, which also provide great benefits to our region. SMU and the Bush Center engage in wide-ranging academic partnerships that provide students and faculty with unique opportunities to work alongside global experts on solutions to some of the most pressing international and domestic challenges and bring the community to campus for compelling programs. Some examples of recent collaborations include: The George W. Bush Institute and SMU are joining forces to launch the Bush Institute-SMU Economic Growth Initiative on June 1, 2018. This effort will combine the existing Economic Growth Initiative of the Bush Institute with the public policy-relevant work of the SMU Department of Economics. The objective is to build the initiative into a globally respected policy voice on the most pressing economic issues of our time. Learn more. Over the past five years, more than 100 SMU students have served as interns at the Bush Center, gaining valuable experience as they work alongside policy experts in international relations, military service, economics, women’s issues, governmental policies and other fields. To date, 38 students have received Bush Institute fellowships through the Albert W. Niemi Center for American Capitalism at SMU’s Cox School of Business. These students conducted research projects in the areas of military service, economic growth, education reform, human freedom and women’s leadership. Associate Professor Maribeth Kuenzi, director of the Niemi Center, serves on the Bush Center’s Human Freedom Advisory Council. SMU’s Simmons School of Education and Human Development works with the Bush Institute on education research and reforms that help children. Assistant Professor Meredith Richards serves as a senior advisor and SMU faculty affiliate with the Bush Center’s School Leadership Initiative. Nineteen faculty members have taught in Bush Institute leadership programs that have included the training of more than 60 women from Egypt and Tunisia. Linda Eads, associate professor at SMU’s Dedman School of Law, serves on the Bush Center’s Women’s Initiative Advisory Council. SMU students who are military veterans work with the Bush Institute to raise awareness for helping veterans transition back into civilian life. Rita Kirk, William F. May Endowed Director, Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics & Public Responsibility and Altshuler Distinguished Teaching Professor of Corporate Communication and Public Affairs, serves on the advisory board council of the Bush Institute’s Military Service Initiative. The George W. Bush Presidential Center and SMU SMU-Bush Center Partnerships Center for Presidential History at SMU Commencement Addresses Timeline of Bush Center Site Selection Process Tower Center Resources Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share