Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply How to Apply Realize Your Future in Medicine Whether you are seeking a career in medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, or an allied health field, our internationally recognized faculty, dedicated academic advisors, network of clinical and research opportunities, and resource-rich campus in New York City will help you realize your future in medicine. Our students come from a wide range of backgrounds. Some have already begun a career and are looking for more from their professional lives, others have experienced personal situations that inspired them to go into a medical field, and some are seeking the science education they didn't take as an undergraduate. No matter your situation, we will set you on the path to medical school. Notice of Non-Discrimination The admissions policies of the Postbac Premed Program at the School of General Studies adhere to the Columbia University Non-Discrimination Policy. Full Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Updates for Summer/Fall 2022 Applicants In response to the impacts of COVID-19, there have been some modifications to our application policies to better accommodate students wishing to apply to the Postbaccalaurete Premedical Program for Summer/Fall 2022. Please see below for important updates to the applications process: Application fees for Summer/Fall 2022 enrollment have been suspended. We recognize that financial uncertainty may impact decisions you will make in the near future. Once you have completed your application, please submit it and select that you will pay by credit card. Applications will be reviewed daily to waive the application fee. Please do not submit payment and ignore the payment due on your application status page. Again, it is important that you DO NOT submit payment and the fee will be waived within 24 hours of the application submission. Expand all Collapse all How to Apply Admissions Requirements The following items are required to review an application for admission to the Postbac Premed Program. Please note that unofficial documents are accepted as part of the application process, and can be used to make an admissions decision. If offered admission, in order to enroll you will be required to submit official* documents. A submitted online application. Submission of high school transcripts, secondary school records, or GED/TASC test results is optional Please note on your application where you graduated from high school and if you intend to submit the record in order to be reviewed for admissions purposes.* Transcripts from all colleges or universities attended Documents not in English must be accompanied by certified translations.* Test Scores If you have taken any standardized tests such as ACT, SAT, TOEFL, GRE, GMAT, LSAT, or MCAT, please report them on your application in the Test Scores section. If you are admitted, we will inform you of any requirement to have the scores sent to us officially. A double-spaced essay of approximately 500 words Two letters of recommendation from academic and/or professional sources Letters should be requested and submitted via the application portal A nonrefundable application fee of $80, submitted using the secure online application system** *Official documents are those that arrive directly from the institution, testing service, or recommender electronically. If electronic documents are not available from your high school, we will accept mailed copies of the transcripts sent directly to the GS Office of Admissions from the issuing agency. Paper transcripts may not be delivered or forwarded by a student. If electronic documents are not available from your college or university, please contact the GS Office of Admissions for further instruction. **Varies for Spring 2022 applicants. Please see Updates for Spring 2022 Applicants section above. Note that applicants must submit all materials directly and not through an agent or third-party vendor. In addition, the applicant will be required to attest to the accuracy and authenticity of all information and documents submitted to Columbia. If you have any questions about this requirement please contact us at [email protected]. Important Contact Information Office of Admissions and Educational Financing Columbia University School of General Studies 408 Lewisohn Hall, MC 4101 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-2772 [email protected] Tracking Your Application If you have already applied to the Postbac Premed Program, you may check the status of your application online. Professional Tracks Premedicine, Oesteopathic Medicine, and Predentistry Students preparing for admission to allopathic, osteopathic, or dental schools have the same course curriculum. Differences typically occur in clinical or volunteer options. Preveterinary Medicine Students preparing for admission to veterinary schools follow the same series of basic requirements that premedical students follow and often need additional requirements such as anatomy and physiology as well as large, small, and exotic animal experience, either paid or volunteer. Students should plan early and carefully for their exotic and large animal experiences because opportunities are limited, especially in New York City. Many students pursue exotic and large animal work in out-of-town settings. Allied Health Track The Postbac Premed Program supports students interested in pursuing careers as physician assistants, in occupational or physical therapy, public health, or other health care professions. Much of the coursework required for admission to these professional programs corresponds to the premedical curriculum. As with the premedical students, prehealth students receive close advice and support from the Postbaccalaureate Premedical Program Office. Program Timetable The Postbac Premed Program affords students great flexibility, with the option to enroll full or part time, beginning study in the fall, spring, or summer. Courses are offered both during the day and in the evening. Students who must work full time should give themselves more time to complete the first phase of their studies, and may want to consider enrolling part time. Program length is determined by a variety of factors. Please be aware that most students do not complete more than two core science courses (plus lab) in any given term. If a student has previously taken any core science courses, these must have been taken during a full-length semester and not a mini-session or abbreviated summer semester. Traditional and Accelerated Programs The traditional program and the accelerated program are both four semesters long, and each track covers the same classes and amount of material—the difference lies in the time it takes to complete each track. Traditional Program The traditional program begins in the fall semester and takes two years to complete (a fall and spring semester followed by another fall and spring semester). Students interested in beginning the traditional program in the fall can expect to complete their coursework after two full academic years of study. In the third year, known as the glide year, students will focus on applying to medical school while deepening their exposure to medicine through advanced science coursework, research, or clinical work. Accelerated Program The coursework in the accelerated program may be completed in less than 18 months, as it begins in the spring semester, includes a special full-length summer term, and finishes with a typical fall-spring semester academic year. Students who are up for a challenge and wish to enroll in the accelerated program can expect to complete coursework within 18 months if they are prepared to begin General Chemistry I, Physics I, and Calculus I. The accelerated program is suitable for students who have demonstrated strong quantitative skills and have recently completed calculus or are calculus-ready. Like those in the traditional program, students spend the following year applying to medical school, taking advanced coursework, and engaging in research or clinical work, upon completion of academic coursework. Note: Students may not apply to the accelerated program, but will work with their academic advisor to determine the program that is right for them—the accelerated sequence, a part-time start, or preparatory coursework are all options available to spring admits. Part-time Program Students may opt to enroll for part time study, which offers greater flexibility. Many students begin by taking a single course while continuing to work a full-time job; this is especially the case for students who begin in the spring or summer terms in order to complete preparatory coursework before enrolling in the required science courses. Summer Enrollment All preparatory coursework, including pre-calculus, pre-chemistry, and basic physics, is offered during at least one of the summer terms. These courses may also be offered during the fall and spring semesters. Information about summer enrollment is also available for students who may need to begin their studies in the summer before their first fall enrollment to prepare for mathematics, chemistry, and physics. Admissions Advisement Prospective Student Appointments The Office of Admissions dedicates time for prospective students to speak directly with a representative of the Admissions Team. Topics that might be discussed during these appointments include: Academic record Eligibility to apply Postbac Premed Program curriculum Appointment Procedures An appointment is recommended for students who cannot attend an information session, or have attended an information session and have specific questions, to more directly discuss the Postbac Premed Program and the application process. Appointments are 20-30 minutes in length and may be conducted over the phone or through video conference. Appointment Availability Students who seek admissions advising appointments should note that appointments are only listed if they are available. If none are listed, please check back for additional availability. Make an Appointment Note: Prospective students who previously applied to the Postbac Premed Program should not electronically schedule an appointment, and should instead contact the Office of Admissions at 212-854-2772. Online Application Request More Information Contact Information Can't make it to an information session? Learn about admissions advisement, designed for prospective Postbac Premed students. Office of Admissions Columbia University Postbac Premed Program 408 Lewisohn Hall, MC 4101 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Phone: +1 (212) 854-2772 Toll Free: (800) 895-1169 Fax: +1 (212) 854-6316 [email protected] Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close