Skip to main content menu Cornell University SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Financial Aid Main menu Apply for Aid Prospective Applicants Prospective Applicants International Prospective Applicants Undocumented Current Students Current Students International/Undocumented Graduate Students Special Circumstances Appealing Your Aid Decision Family Circumstances Additional Aid Possibilities Residence Hall Positions Changes to your Student Contribution Living Off Campus Study Abroad/Off Campus Programs Summer/Winter Session Consortium Agreements Emergency Funds Types of Aid Grants and Scholarships Work Loans Cost to Attend Value of a Cornell Education Financial Aid Calculator Cornell’s Commitment to Access and Affordability Financial Aid Eligibility Financial Aid Initiatives Policies Consumer Information Course Repeats and Financial Aid Eligibility Eligible U.S. Citizenship Status, Eligible Non-Citizens, Undocumented Students Federal Satisfactory Academic Progress Federal Student Financial Aid Penalties for Drug Law Violations Federal Verification Leaves and Withdrawals Lending Code of Conduct New York State Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) Satisfactory Academic Progress Prorated Tuition Student Rights and Responsibilities Summer/Winter Session Aid Tax Withholding Veterans Education Benefits Policy Consent to Release Student Information Forms Videos How to Find a Job File your FAFSA College Board's IDOC Service Understanding Your Award Letter Financial Aid Appeal Financial Aid Overview Completing the CSS Profile Ayuda Financiera de Cornell Financial Aid Application Process Orientation Information You are here Home » Cost to Attend print share Facebook Twitter Cost to Attend More Affordable Than You May Think Whether you are just beginning your search or putting the final touches on your application essay, the journey to college can be overwhelming. Understanding the cost of attendance – and available financial aid options – shouldn’t be. Cornell’s estimated cost of attendance is based on tuition, fees, housing, dining, books, supplies and personal items for a full-time student attending for both the fall and spring semesters. This cost depends on several factors, including which undergraduate college you apply to, if you are a New York state resident, and where you will be living. Estimated Cost of Attendance Cornell Grants, Gift Aid Work Study and Loans Total Annual Cost for Family Published cost for attendance for one year Free money that does not need to be repaid Student earns money during the academic year. Loans must be repaid. Parents pay based off their income and assets. Students earn money during the summer. For many students, applying for financial aid will significantly reduce the amount they will pay each year. An important component of our financial aid packages are Cornell grants, which is free money that does not need to be repaid. The average Cornell grant award for a first-year student in the Class of 2025 was $43,250, and as high as $72,800. The overall price is also reduced through loans and work-study – money students earn during the academic year. After factoring in Cornell grants, loans and work-study, the remaining portion is the total annual cost for each family. This is a combination of the parent contribution, which is determined by income, assets, family size and number in college, and the student contribution, which is the amount students are asked to contribute to the cost of their education through summer employment and a portion of their savings or trust. In addition to the estimated budgets below, we encourage you to use the Financial Aid Calculator to estimate your family’s unique cost to attend. 2022-2023 Estimated Cost of Attendance The cost of attendance reflects estimated expenses prior to financial aid. Please review a detailed breakdown of the 2022-2023 estimated cost of attendance and reference our Financial Aid FAQ for more information. Tuition and Fees $62,456 Endowed Colleges $41,958 State Contract Colleges (NY State Resident) $62,456 State Contract Colleges (Non-NY State Resident) $310 Student Activity Fee $434 Health Fee Housing and Dining $17,088 Living on Campus $17,088 Off Campus, Living in Ithaca Area Apartment $5,412 Off Campus, Commuter Books, Supplies, Personal/Miscellaneous $1,000 Books & Supplies $2,008 Personal/Miscellaneous Note: The cost for supplies will be slightly higher for Architecture and Art students in the College of Architecture, Art, and Planning as well as students in these majors: Landscape Architecture, Design & Environmental Analysis, and Fiber Science & Apparel Design. Additional Expenses Travel Estimated annual costs associated with transportation to and from campus are assessed by region. Health Insurance Students not already covered by health insurance that meets Cornell's health insurance requirements, along with international students, are required to purchase the Cornell Student Health Plan. Endowed Colleges College of Architecture, Art and Planning College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering Cornell SC Johnson College of Business – School of Hotel Administration Endowed colleges or schools at Cornell are privately funded and do not receive direct funding from New York state. State Contract Colleges College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Human Ecology Cornell SC Johnson College of Business – Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management School of Industrial and Labor Relations Contract colleges or schools at Cornell University were created by an act of the New York State Legislature and receive direct funding from New York state. The mission of the contract units is linked directly to the economic and social wellbeing of New York state. Residents of New York state receive the resident rate tuition. Cost to Attend Value of a Cornell Education Financial Aid Calculator Cornell’s Commitment to Access and Affordability Financial Aid Eligibility Financial Aid Initiatives Apply for Aid Further Resources Glossary of Terms Video Tutorials Contact Us Office Hours: Monday-Thursday from 9:00am - 1:00pm & 2:00pm - 4:00pm Phone Hours: Monday-Thursday from 10:00am - 1:00pm & 2:00pm - 4:00pm Schedule Counselor Appointments: Cornell Chatter Website Feedback 203 Day Hall, Cornell University Tel: 607-255-5145 | finaid@cornell.edu Secure fax: 607-255-6329 | Secure Online Upload If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, Contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2022 Cornell University Admissions Financial Aid Student Employment