Skip to main content Admissions Home Search Menu Boise Global Navigation Apply Visit Give Menu Ready to take the next step? Plan your virtual visit. Search Search All Boise State Admissions Only VISIT BOISE STATE With your safety in mind, we have created a diverse set of options for you to start your Boise State adventure. We are so excited for you to visit campus, whether it be from the comfort of your own home, or a guided tour with a current student. Come explore what it means to be a Bronco. Admissions Apply Visit Student Life Explore Academics Cost and Value Next Steps for Admitted Students Connect with Us! More section menu items Explore Boise State's Campus Our campus runs along the banks of the Boise River, just a quick walk from the heart of Idaho’s largest city. Come learn about campus life, housing options, financial aid and more — plus pick up some tips to help with your college exploration. Virtual Visits Virtual Visits Virtual Visits On-Campus Tours On-Campus Tours On-Campus Tours Group Visits Group Visits Group Visits Take a self-guided tour of campus We are so excited that you plan to make a trip to beautiful Boise, Idaho and are interested in taking a self-guided tour of our campus and the city of Boise. We have compiled all the must-dos and must-sees so you can get a glimpse of what life as a Bronco could be like! Email us for your copy at visitus@boisestate.edu, or visit our tour page at the link below. Self-Guided Tour Summer Bike Tours With so much to see around campus and in downtown Boise, join us on a biking tour to cruise around one of the most bike friendly campuses and cities in the nation! We will provide the bikes, helmets, instructions, and fun facts for you to explore Boise on two wheels! Be sure to sign up soon as registration is limited. Learn More Experience Boise like a Bronco Discover why so many Broncos are proud to call Boise, Idaho their home. If you’re visiting Boise from out of town, we’re excited to introduce you to the ‘City of Trees’. So that you can make the most of your experience, we have a compiled a handful of recommendations around Hotels and Hospitality, Transportation around Boise, Activities, Restaurants and more below. Learn more! Campus Map Boise State Admissions admissions@boisestate.edu 208-426-1156 1910 University Dr. Boise, 83725-1320 Follow Us Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Youtube Secondary Navigation myBoiseState Safety, Security and Support Career Opportunities Boise State Public Radio Albertsons Library Transportation and Parking Partner with Us Morrison Center Alumni Bronco Shop and Bookstore University Administration ExtraMile Arena Broncos Logo Athletics Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Youtube Accessibility Privacy Classroom Concerns Policies Contact Boise State © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Boise State University