Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Student Affairs> Student Health Services> Student Health Services Eligibility for Care - Version 1 Student Health Services Eligibility for Care Version 1 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Policy REG11.40.03 Title Student Health Services Eligibility for Care Category Student Affairs Sub-category Student Health Services Authority ECU Student Health Services History Approved by Chancellor's Executive Council January 6, 2020. Contact Director of Student Health Services, 252-328-6841 Related Policies Student Health Insurance Plan Workers Compensation Benefits UNC Policy Manual Chapter 600.4.1.2(G) Additional References ECU Physicians Rapid Access 1. Introduction 1.1. East Carolina University (“University” or “ECU”) Student Health Services (“SHS”) is fully accredited by the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (“AAAHC”). SHS is comprised of dedicated professionals offering primary healthcare services to eligible, enrolled students of the University Community. 2. Definitions 2.1. “Distance Learners” means, for the purposes of this regulation, students taking classes at the University, but not paying the Student Health Fee. 2.2. “Follow-up visits” means a visit for purposes of follow-up of a previous diagnosis, occurring no later than four weeks after the initial diagnosis. 2.3. “Grace Period” means the period of time where a student can be seen at SHS for a follow-up visit. Eligible students have a two-week grace period once they are no longer enrolled or have graduated. ECU Language Academy students have a four-week grace period for one follow-up visit. 2.4. “Student Health Fee” means the fee that University students pay for health services as part of their general university tuition and fees. This fee entitles students to many professional services offered by Student Health Services. The fee itself pays for any office visit charges, meaning a student does not have to pay to be treated by a health care provider. However, the fee does not cover services such as procedures, labs, radiology, orthopedic equipment, or pharmacy services. 3. Eligible Students 3.1. Eligibility Based on Enrollment 3.1.1. Students enrolled in classes at the University who have paid a Student Health Fee in the current term of enrollment are eligible for care. 3.1.2. Students who are no longer enrolled in classes at ECU but need a follow up visit are eligible for care during the Grace Period. For students that are graduating, the Grace Period of two weeks from the official University Commencement ceremony will be given for follow-up visits. ECU graduates who are no longer enrolled will not be eligible for care after the two-week Grace Period. At the time of the follow up visit, students will be advised to secure the services of their own health care provider for any additional health care needs, including, but not limited to, physicals and gynecological examinations. Student Health Services will provide - on request - a list of local health care providers. Persons no longer enrolled in the University may request copies of their medical records at any time. Persons requesting records should contact SHS to discuss procedures and fees associated with the release of records. 3.2. Eligible Students During Summer 3.2.1. Students that are enrolled in summer sessions at the University and have paid the Student Health Fee in the current term of enrollment. 3.2.2. Students that were enrolled at the University during the spring semester and are registered for the fall semester, and pay for each office visit, at the time of visit. 3.3. Distance Learners 3.3.1. Effective Spring 2005, Distance Learners are eligible for treatment in SHS by paying a student health access fee of $30 at the time of each visit. 3.4. Eligible Students during Intercession 3.4.1. Beginning the last day of summer school until the first day of fall move-in, students who attended class the previous spring or either summer session, and are registered for the fall semester, will be charged an access fee at the time of each office visit (including those with the University-sponsored insurance plan). 3.4.2. Beginning the last day of fall semester until the first day of spring semester, students who attended class in the fall and are registered for the spring semester will be charged an intercession fee at the time of each office visit (including those with the University-sponsored insurance plan). 3.4.3. Beginning the last day of spring semester and ending the first day of the first summer session, students who attended class the in the spring and are registered for the fall semester will be charged an intercession fee at the time of each office visit (including those with the University-sponsored insurance). 3.5. ECU Language Academy Students 3.5.1. As of Spring 2016, students currently enrolled in the ECU Language Academy who have paid the Student Health Fee will be eligible for SHS services. 3.5.2. Students enrolled in the ECU Language Academy will only be eligible for services during the semester in which they are enrolled. 3.5.3. Students who are no longer enrolled in classes at the ECU Language Academy but need a follow up visit may be seen for one (1) follow up visit within the Grace Period. At the time of the follow up visit, these students will be advised to secure the services of their own health care provider for any additional health care needs, including, but not limited to, physicals and gynecological examinations. Student Health Service will provide on request a list of local health care providers. Persons requesting records should contact SHS to discuss procedures and fees associated with the release of records. 3.5.4. ECU Language Academy students will be required to pay for ancillary services, including, but not limited to, x-rays, labs, and procedures at the time of their visit. If they cannot pay, the services will be charged to the Office of Global Affairs. 3.6. Students’ Spouses and Dependents 3.6.1. A student’s spouse and/or dependents are not eligible for services at SHS unless they are otherwise eligible under this policy. 4. Short Term University Sponsored Event Participants and Visitors 4.1. Services to Campus Visitors 4.1.1. People who are participating in a short-term University sponsored event (e.g. campers) may be seen for acute injury/illness. They will be stabilized and referred off campus if needed. They will be assessed a student health access fee of $30. If they are unable to pay at the time of service, the sponsoring department will be charged. 4.1.2. In an emergency situation, a non-University employee working on campus, as well as faculty, staff or visitors not participating in a short-term University sponsored event will be triaged and stabilized by SHS and appropriately referred off campus. 5. ECU Faculty/Staff (non SHS Employees) 5.1. Clinical Services Available to University Faculty/ Staff 5.1.1. Routine medical care and appointments are not available for University faculty/staff; however, SHS will work to stabilize any immediate health issues until a faculty/staff member can arrange care at a local urgent care facility or his/her private physician’s office. Care for University faculty and staff is limited to first aid/triaging of urgent issues and select nursing and pharmacy services. 5.1.2. ECU Faculty and Staff may seek care at ECU Physicians Rapid Access. (See Additional References above) 5.2. Pharmacy Services Provided for Faculty/Staff 5.2.1. SHS Pharmacy Services provides prescriptions and over-the-counter medication services to University employees. Prescriptions can be filled from SHS or outside providers. Patients who receive prescriptions from SHS providers are not required to utilize SHS Pharmacy Services. 5.3. Nursing Services Provided for Faculty/Staff include: 5.3.1. Titer/Immunizations. If required for employment, charges will be assessed to the patient and/or requiring department for the cost of vaccination/titer. 5.3.2. Allergy shots. Faculty/staff receiving allergy shots will not be assessed a student health access fee; however, they may be charged a small fee for nurse assistance with the injection. The employee will supply the allergy serum to the Employee Health Nurse per the SHS Allergy Vaccine Procedure Policy 5.3.3. Blood pressure checks (at no charge) 5.4. ECU Transit Physicals 5.4.1. Physicals required for employees in University Transit may be provided by SHS providers. Costs associated will be charged to the Transit Department. 5.5. Faculty/Staff Procedures and Payment 5.5.1. When scheduling or requesting care, faculty/staff are advised that charges will be collected at the time of service. 5.5.2. Employees will be assessed an access fee of $15 for acute/urgent office visits (as this rate is comparable to the copay for a primary care visit with State Employee insurance). 5.5.3. If faculty/staff fail to pay for services, the patient account will be flagged. In addition, the patient will be notified of the debt by mail and a date for payment to be made will be requested. If the patient fails to meet this commitment, the SHS Business Manager will contact the patient to make arrangements for payment to be made through a payroll deduction. In the event that the faculty/staff member does not remit payment in full or follow through with payroll deduction, the account will be referred to Human Resources for disciplinary action and referred to ECU Financial Services so the receivable can be entered into the formal University Collection process. 5.6. Faculty/Staff Work Related Illnesses and Injuries 5.6.1. University faculty/staff (full-time, part-time, temporary, or student workers) who suffer a workplace injury or illness are covered under the ECU Workers’ Compensation Program. The employee must immediately notify their supervisor no matter how minor the incident. The supervisor must immediately report the incident to the Office of EH&S (252-328-6166) to authorize medical treatment, direct medical care and conduct an incident investigation. If a life-threatening situation, i.e. severe allergic reaction, profusely bleeding, loss of consciousness, broken bone, seek medical treatment immediately or contact Emergency Medical Services at 9-1-1. 5.6.2. Employees should contact ECU Prospective Health (252-744-2070) directly if blood exposures and/or needle sticks occur. 6. ECU Athletics Staff and Coaches 6.1. Clinical Services Available to ECU Athletics Staff and Coaches 6.1.1. ECU Athletics staff and coaches, that do not pay a Student Health fee in a current term of enrollment, should not expect, in general, to receive medical treatment at SHS or by the SHS Team Physician. 6.1.2. ECU Athletics staff and coaches with certain self-limiting, temporary illnesses/injuries (i.e. earaches, sore throats, URIs, cystitis, etc.) or acute exacerbations of chronic illnesses may be seen by the team physician and have appropriate diagnostic evaluations done to help define and treat the illness/injury. 6.1.3. During times of travel with the Athletics teams, acute care and triage care may also be provided to the Athletics staff, coaches and those traveling with the team in acute/urgent cases as determined by the team physician. 6.2. ECU Athletics Staff and Coaches Payment 6.2.1. ECU Athletics staff and coaches will be assessed an access fee of $15 for acute/urgent visits to see the team physician. Payment collection will follow the same procedures for all University faculty and staff. 7. Student Health Services Staff 7.1. SHS employees should not expect, in general, to receive medical treatment at SHS. The primary responsibility of the SHS staff is to provide medical care for the student population. SHS Employees may not be treated for chronic illnesses, physical exams, or annual gynecological exams. 7.2. SHS employee spouses or dependents are not eligible for care at SHS unless they are otherwise eligible under this policy. 7.3. SHS Employee Injury or Blood Exposure 7.3.1. In the event of an injury or blood exposure, the SHS employee will report to the SHS Employee Health Nurse and follow the policies set by the North Carolina Department of Environmental Health and Safety and the SHS Employee Injury Report 7.4. Clinical Services Available to SHS Employees 7.4.1. SHS Employees with certain self-limiting, temporary illnesses/injuries (i.e. earaches, sore throats, URIs, cystitis, etc.) or acute exacerbations of chronic illnesses may be seen by a SHS provider and have appropriate diagnostic evaluations done to help define and treat the illness/injury. Employees should be seen when students are not waiting and when it does not interfere with the employee’s work. The employee must use sick or vacation time during the time of his/her appointment. 7.4.2. Lab tests and x-rays for SHS employees will be done at the convenience of the laboratory/ radiology staff and when the student load is light. 7.4.3. SHS staff members are also eligible for nursing services as described for University faculty and staff 7.5. Pharmacy Services for SHS Employees 7.5.1. SHS employees may purchase available prescriptions and over-the-counter drugs from the SHS Pharmacy at the convenience of the Pharmacy staff. Payment is required at the time service is rendered. 7.6. SHS Staff Procedures and Payment 7.6.1. When scheduling or requesting care, SHS faculty/staff are advised that charges will be collected at the time of service. 7.6.2. SHS employees will be assessed an access fee of $15 for acute/urgent office visits. 7.6.3. The Employee Health Nurse will administer immunizations required for employment and employee supplied allergy shots to SHS employees at no charge. The cost of certain vaccines will be the responsibility of the employee. The employee is responsible for payment at the time service is rendered. The employee will supply the allergy serum to the Employee Health Nurse per the SHS Allergy Vaccine Procedure Policy. 7.6.4. In situations where the SHS lab is working as a diagnostic center (for radiology) or drawing station (for laboratory testing) and the employee is not following up with an SHS provider for the lab or x-ray, there will be no access fee assessed for the visit, however, any charges associated with the radiology or laboratory services will be the responsibility of the staff member. 7.6.5. Payment collection will follow the same procedures for all University faculty and staff. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier