Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation About About Georgia Tech History & Traditions Rankings Mission & Vision Our Values Ethics Visitor Information Institute Leadership Office and Department Directory Student, Staff, and Faculty Directory Careers at Tech Academics Academic Environment Majors and Degrees Colleges and Schools Continuing and Professional Education Georgia Tech Online Academic Calendar Admissions Prospective Students Admissions Overview Campus Tours Tuition and Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Digital Swag Campus Life Explore the Main Campus Student Activities Athletics Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets Tickets Ramblin Wreck Store Research Research Areas Research News News & Events News Center Experts Guide Feature Stories Campus Calendar Media Contacts Apply Give Search Search form Enter your keywords Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. You are here: GT Home Bachelor of Science in Psychology Undergraduate Degree in Psychology Overview In addition to its state-of-the-art laboratories, Georgia Tech’s undergraduate psychology degree program offers several key advantages: A technically oriented curriculum that emphasizes quantitative and experimental approaches to the study of behavior. This strong emphasis in the sciences and mathematics provides excellent preparation for graduate school. Undergraduate research opportunities. Students have the chance to conduct research with world-renowned professors working at the forefront of the science of psychology. Small size. Limiting our program size provides our students and researchers with a more personalized and focused learning experience. As a Psychology major, you will develop a competence and knowledge of quantitative and experimental approaches to studying the mind and human behavior. BS Psychology Degree Concentrations and Options Concentrations Customize your curriculum plan to match your specific interests and career plans. Build a business perspective into your degree without adding the hours required for a minor. Learn about the Business Option. Options Increase your competitiveness for jobs and graduate school by adding a designation to your degree. Pursue an in-depth, long-term research experience. Learn more about the Research Option. Prepare for a global career. Learn more about the International Plan. Bachelor's Degree in Psychology Requirements The requirements include core classes in cognitive, social and industrial/organizational psychology; fundamental courses in biology, chemistry, and calculus; electives to explore areas in greater depth including cognitive neuroscience and behavioral pharmacology; and undergraduate research. Download a sample undergraduate course schedule. Course Highlights Biopsychology: Neurophysiological, endocrinological, and biochemical bases of sensory and motor functioning, motivation, learning, memory, and behavior dysfunction. Social Psychology: Consideration of the behavior of individuals in social contexts, including interpersonal and group settings. Human Sensation and Perception: An examination of human sensory systems and perceptual processes. View the general Bachelor of Science in Psychology course requirements Rankings and Awards Georgia Tech’s School of Psychology faculty members are frequently recognized for their outstanding contributions to their fields. Examples of such recognition include: The National Science Foundation appointed Lizanne DeStefano as one of 18 inaugural members of its STEM Education Advisory Panel. Professor Phillip Ackerman served as the President of the International Society for the Study of Individual Differences (ISSID) until 2019. Assistant Professor Thackery Brown received the 2016 NARSAD Young Investigator Award, from the Brain and Behavior Research Foundation. Professor Randall Engle was awarded the 2017 Association for Psychological Science Mentor Award. Professor Bruce Walker was appointed General Advisory Committee Member and Technical Format Review Advisory Committee Member for DIAGRAM Center. See more awards, honors, and grants What Can You Do with a Degree in Psychology? Many students with the B.S. degree in Psychology choose to enter a variety of fields including academic research, education, law, medicine, marketing, human factors, system design, personnel selection and training, and management. Psychology Professor Clinical Psychologist Lawyer Market Research Analyst Training and Development Specialist What Are Georgia Tech Graduates Doing Now? They are: Professor of psychology. Principal investigator at Soar Technologies. Talent consulting analyst at Mercer Inc. Faculty member at a private K-12 school. Practicing medicine and nursing. Common Job Titles and Average Salaries Business Consultant: $71,669 Psychologist: $74,587 Neurologist: $206,036 Source: Payscale.com Psychology Research for Undergraduates Undergraduates can get involved with research in three different ways: Working as a research assistant. Conducting a senior thesis. Participating in summer workshops and internships Beyond the Classroom Go beyond the lecture hall and see psychology in the real world. Join the Psychology Club or the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society. Learn about undergraduate research opportunities for first-year students. Apply to reside in the Science and Mathematics Research Training Living Learning Community. Gain employment experience and benefit from real-world experience in your field. Learn more about the Co-op Program and internships. Learn more about study abroad opportunities led by College of Sciences faculty. Stories from the School of Psychology Meet Dar-Wei Chen: Ph.D. in Psychology Why Choose Georgia Tech for Graduate School? Chris Stanzione Receives Award for Excellence in Teaching Brain Mechanisms Create Confidence About Things Seen Related Degrees BS in Neuroscience Certificates in Psychology Minor in General Psychology Related Websites College of Sciences School of Psychology Next Steps Subscribe to the Prospective Student e-newsletter Register for the "It's All About Science & Math" information session Learn How to Apply Apply Now Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Instagram Flickr Pinterest RSS Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login