Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Presidential Search You are here Home About Board of Trustees Presidential Search Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Temple University names Dr. Jason Wingard as the university’s 12th president. Temple is proud to announce Dr. Jason Wingard as the university’s new president beginning July 1, 2021. Dr. Wingard comes to Temple after serving as dean and professor of the Columbia University School of Professional Studies. This announcement comes after a 10-month search by the university’s Presidential Search Committee following President Richard Englert’s announcement in July 2020. Meet Dr. Jason Wingard The search for Temple’s 12th president. Following President Richard M. Englert’s announcement in July 2020 that he will retire in 2021, after 45 years in 17 different posts at the university, Temple University conducted a national search for its 12th president. Presidential Search Committee Board of Trustees Chair Mitchell L. Morgan announced on Sept. 14, 2020, the establishment of a Presidential Search Committee, which sought and evaluated candidates for president of Temple University. The committee partnered with the nationally recognized executive search firm, Diversified Search Group, and its higher education practice, Storbeck Search, to assist in the process. Learn more about that search team. Presidential Search Prospectus The Presidential Search Prospectus presents the expectations of the Temple community for its next leader: A bold, inspirational leader who can build bridges with the university’s many constituencies and elevate the institution to its next level of greatness. Download the prospectus Temple Community Input Last fall, representatives of the Presidential Search Committee hosted a series of virtual town hall meetings with faculty, deans, students, staff and the community to receive input from these important constituencies. In addition, a survey was distributed to the university community to provide an additional opportunity for everyone with a stake in Temple’s future to provide input. Comments and suggestions from the hundreds of participants in the meetings and more than a thousand survey respondents provided valuable insight. This information was incorporated into the Presidential Search Prospectus and informed the process. Presidential Search Committee Members Board of Trustees Mitchell L. Morgan, Chair Leonard Barrack Stephen G. Charles Sandra Harmon-Weiss Marina Kats Drew A. Katz Christopher W. McNichol J. William Mills III Leon O. Moulder Jr. Patrick J. O’Connor Bret S. Perkins Daniel H. Polett Phillip C. Richards Faculty and Administration James Earl Davis, professor, College of Education and Human Development Valerie Harrison, senior advisor to the president for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Rafael Porrata-Doria, professor, Beasley School of Law; President, Faculty Senate Kimmika Williams-Witherspoon, professor, School of Theater, Film and Media Arts; vice president, Faculty Senate Student Quinn Litsinger, president, Temple Student Government Secretary and Advisor Anne K. Nadol, secretary to the Board of Trustees, will act as secretary to the committee. Michael B. Gebhardt, university counsel, will serve as advisor to the committee. Go back to AboutMore in Board of Trustees Presidential Search Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.