Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Dean of Students Student Outreach & Support Campus/Community Resources Adult/Parenting Students Religious Life Departments & Programs Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Community/Campus Resources Academic and Library Clothing COVID-19 Emergency Food Emergency Funds Emergency Housing Emergency Mental Health Employment Resources Financial Literacy Health Care Services Legal Services New and Expectant Parents Sexual Assault & Domestic Violence SNAP Assistance Technology Transportation Take Action Tiger Food Pantry Emergency Fund Report a Concern Contact Us Home Dean of Students Community/Campus Resources Rosie Bingham Emergency Fund Dr. Rosie Phillips Bingham Student Emergency Fund Special Anouncement: Due to the continuing COVID-19 related emergency expenses the maximum request amount will move from $500 to $750 for the spring 2022 Semester. Since we are receiving a higher than normal number of requests and processing time may take longer than usual, please allow 7 to 10 days to process to your request. The Dr. Rosie Phillips Bingham Student Emergency Fund was established to assist UofM students facing financial hardship which would otherwise interfere with their success at UofM. The fund provides limited emergency awards to currently enrolled students who experience unexpected or temporary expenses. *This fund is not meant to be used on an ongoing basis for routine expenses, or for tuition expenses. The average award amount ranges from $100 to $300, with a limit of $500 for extreme situations. Applications to this fund should include documentation of the expense. Eligible Expenses Types of expenses covered include but are not limited to: Assistance with utilities Housing needs (e.g. securing short-term housing, security deposits, etc.) Replacement of lost personal items (due to fire, theft, flood, etc.) Emergency expenses related to dependents (e.g. childcare) Requests for more than $500 will not be considered. Ineligible Expenses Tuition, fees, room and board at the University of Memphis Ongoing and recurring financial needs that will continue to be an issue in the future Non-emergency travel and non-essential expenses Food and groceries (for help with food, toiletries, and household items, please visit Tiger Pantry) Student Eligibility & Requirements Applicants must be currently enrolled, degree-seeking students. Applicants must have completed 12 credit hours at the University of Memphis. Applications must be for an amount of $500 or less. Applications for amounts over $500 will not be considered. Students should be enrolled at least half-time for the current semester (or for the upcoming semester, if the need occurs between semesters). Students must be able to demonstrate financial hardship due to emergency, accident, illness, natural disaster, or another unforeseen event. Students should have a plan for future financial stability. Students without a plan for future financial stability will be referred for further assistance. Students are only eligible to receive funding from the Dr. Rosie Phillips Bingham Student Emergency Fund once per academic year and twice overall at the University of Memphis. Students applying to to the fund for help with eviction notices or utility shutoffs should apply as soon as possible. Applications should be submitted as soon as a student knows they will be at risk for eviction or utility shutoff. If possible, utility assistance requests should be submitted two weeks prior to the shutoff date, and housing assistance requests should be submitted one month in advance of an eviction date. Applications submitted without supporting documentation will not be considered. How to Apply Students must complete BOTH of the following forms: Dr. Rosie Phillips Bingham Student Emergency Fund Application Tiger Scholarship Manager General Application There is an option to attach supporting documentation at the bottom of the Dr. Rosie Phillips Bingham Student Emergency Fund application form. All applications must include supporting documentation when relevant. Applications submitted without supporting documentation will not be considered. Examples of supporting documentation include but are not limited to: Invoices Bills (e.g. utility bill) Rental leases Receipts For books or online access codes, attach a screenshot of the lowest price you can find. Please note: your supporting documentation does not need to prove your financial situation. Bank statements, texts from family/friends, etc. are not necessary. Supporting documentation must be relevant to the issue that you are requesting funding for. For example, if you are requesting funds to help with a utility bill, you must attach your utility bill. If you are requesting funds to help with car repairs, you must attach an invoice, bill, or some other documentation of the cost of the repairs. If you are requesting funds to purchase books, you must attach proof of their prices. Other Information Once you have applied to the Emergency Fund, the committee will reply to you within three business days regarding your application. If approved, funds can take up to 3 to 5 business days to be disbursed to you. Applications received on University holidays will be considered on the next business day. A list of University holidays is available on the Human Resources Website. If you have questions about the fund or application process, please contact us at rpbemergencyfund@memphis.edu or 901.678.3594. Donations The number of students helped by this emergency fund is limited by the resources available. We welcome donations from faculty, staff, students, families, community members, and others who have the ability. To donate to the fund, visit the Student Affairs Annual Giving site and choose "Bingham Student Emergency Fund." Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/18/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.