Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Master of International Affairs Master of Public Administration MPA in Economic Policy Management MPA in Environmental Science and Policy Executive MPA MPA in Development Practice PhD in Sustainable Development MPA in Global Leadership Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Academics Degree Programs MPA in Economic Policy Management The MPA-EPM, a STEM-designated degree program, provides leading policymakers and professionals with the skills to effectively design and implement economic policy in market economies, with a strong emphasis on the economic problems of developing countries. You are here Home Academics Degree Programs MPA In Economic Policy Management Video of MPA In Economic Policy Management Patricia Mosser Director, MPA In Economic Policy Management Central Banking Webinar Series Policy Challenges for Emerging Markets Central Banks Video of Policy Challenges for Emerging Markets Central Banks Policy Challenges for Emerging Markets Central Banks Central Banking in the COVID-19 Era: Implications for Central Banking Independence Video of Central Banking in the COVID-19 Era: Implications for Central Banking Independence Implications for Central Bank Independence Central Banking in the COVID 19 Era—Recent Lessons for Financial Regulation and Macroprudential Pol Video of Central Banking in the COVID 19 Era—Recent Lessons for Financial Regulation and Macroprudential Pol Recent Lessons for Financial Regulation and Macroprudential Policy Hear from MPA-EPM Alums Alumni Profile: Emeka Richard Ochu MPA-EPM ’19 Video of Alumni Profile: Emeka Richard Ochu MPA-EPM ’19 Emeka Richard Ochu MPA-EPM '19 Alumni Profile: Binqi Liu MPA-EPM '08 Video of Alumni Profile: Binqi Liu MPA-EPM &amp;#039;08 Binqi Liu MPA-EPM '08 Elizabeth Gonzalez MPA-EPM '20 on Taking Her Career to the Next Level Video of Elizabeth Gonzalez MPA-EPM &amp;#039;20 on Taking Her Career to the Next Level Elizabeth Gonzalez MPA-EPM '21 View all Alumni Videos Objective Students in the one-year, STEM-designated MPA-EPM program gain the skills they need to become highly accomplished policymakers and professionals in market economies. The course of study applies the theoretical rigor of the social sciences to the practical lessons of economics and management science through the intensive study of actual economic policy successes and failures. Who It's For The MPA-EPM is best suited for mid-career professionals and policymakers with at least 3 years of work experience in economic decision-making at institutions such as central banks, finance ministries, national and international development agencies, and international financial institutions. Professionals from financial, consulting and energy backgrounds are also encouraged to apply. Career Paths Students graduating with an MPA-EPM STEM-designated degree acquire skills to advance their career and work in leadership, management, and research positions in the public, private, and nonprofit sectors. Recent employers include the World Bank, Bank of England, People’s Bank of China, Inter-American Development Bank, and Deloitte Financial Advisory Services, to name a few. With a STEM degree, students enter the job market with a nationally-recognized designation, and it allows international students to apply for an additional 24 months of OPT after their first year of standard OPT. Curriculum The core of the MPA-EPM program comprises two three-semester course sequences in macroeconomic policy management and econometrics. The program starts in May and finishes the following May. This core is supplemented by courses in management skills and political economy. Each course is built around real-world examples and case studies. Students may choose additional elective courses offered at SIPA and other graduate schools at Columbia. MPA-EPM students must choose one of three curricular focuses: The traditional Economic Policy Management focus (EPM) builds students' technical competence with the tools of economic management and policymaking The Energy & Environment focus (E&E) teaches the fundamentals of the energy industry, including international energy systems and business organizations involved in the production, transportation, and marketing of energy products The Central Banking and Financial Markets focus (CBFM) teaches the latest techniques in capital market development and macroprudential policy View full curriculum Admission Requirements In addition to SIPA’s general admission requirements, the MPA-EPM program requires the following: Meaningful professional exposure to economic policymaking, preferably in a public agency or nongovernmental organization At least three years of work experience An undergraduate degree with a record of superior academic accomplishment, and preferably with strong economics content Learn more about what MPA-EPM looks for Tuition & Fees Learn more about our Tuition & Fees FAQs What does STEM-Designated mean and why is it important? STEM is an acronym for Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math. The US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) supports STEM education in the U.S. by establishing criteria that marks some degree programs as “STEM degrees.” Students completing STEM-designated programs receive an internationally recognized education in these disciplines, which can help them prepare for and secure jobs after graduation. International students completing a STEM-designated program are eligible to apply for the F-1 STEM OPT Extension. This designation enables students to apply for an additional 24 months of OPT authorization beyond their standard 12-month OPT. Is the review process for applicants to the MPA-EPM program the same as for other SIPA programs? The MPA-EPM program has a separate admissions committee that reviews applications and selects students for admission. What is the difference between the one-year MPA-EPM and two-year MPA? The MPA-EPM is best for mid-career professionals who are interested in emerging markets and focused economic policy issues, while the two-year MPA is better for younger candidates who want to explore broader issues. Can I transfer credits into the program? MPA-EPM students who have previously completed a graduate degree in economics or a related discipline may apply to transfer up to 12 credits from their previous graduate degree toward the MPA-EPM degree. Students who wish to apply for such transfer should contact the MPA-EPM Office prior to March 15 at [email protected]. When do I need to confirm a focus? Students confirm a focus at the end of Summer Session II. The MPA-EPM curricular focuses are: the traditional Economic Policy Management Track (EPM), the Global Energy Management and Policy Track (GEMP), and the Central Banking and Financial Markets Track (CBFM). What is the difference between the Economic Policy Management focus area (EPM), Global Energy Policy Management focus area (GEMP) and Central Banking and Financial Markets focus area (CBFM)? The EPM focus builds students’ technical competence with the tools of economic management and policymaking and their application, and also educates students about current thinking on the global economic environment, as well as its history and institutions. The GEMP focus teaches the fundamentals of the energy industry, including study of international energy systems and business organizations involved in the production, transportation, and marketing of energy products. The CBFM focus teaches an in-depth understanding of corporate finance, capital markets, banking and regulation, covering both emerging and advanced economies while also examining the process of building sound capital markets in emerging economies. Can I study part-time? No, the one-year MPA-EPM is a full-time program at SIPA. Students take six courses in the summer, six courses in the fall, and six courses in the spring. Can I visit classes or schedule an informational interview? Prospective students are welcome to sit in on a MPA-EPM core class. If you are traveling to New York City, please email [email protected] to schedule a class visit. MPA-EPM encourages prospective students to schedule their visit between July 5 and August 5 for the summer term, September 30 and November 30 for the fall term, and between February 1 and April 1 for the spring term. Can I speak to alumni about their experience in the program? Yes, through MPA-EPM’s Ambassador Program. Please email [email protected] for more information. Program Requirements All MPA-EPM students take six courses in each of the program’s three semesters. Courses in the three focus areas are identical in the first semester but then diverge in the second and third semesters. Visit the SIPA Bulletin for detailed information regarding each focus area. To discuss the possibility of waiving any core requirements, contact the MPA-EPM program office. Application Checklist More information about the application deadlines and checklist can be found on How to Apply to SIPA. Detailed instructions on the application requirements may be found once you start an account in the online Application Portal or by browsing the Admissions Blog. Learn how to apply to SIPA Employment Statistics Employment By Sector MPA in Economic Policy Management.png Employment by Sector: Public Sector, 88.9%; Private Sector, 11.1%; Nonprofit Sector, 0.0%; Pursuing Further Study: 0.0% Employment icon-employed.png 90% Employed / Pursuing Further Study icon-seeking-emploment.png 10% Seeking Employment icon-not-seeking.png 0.0% Not Seeking Employment Employment information as reported by the graduates six months after graduation. In AY 2021, 11 students graduated from the MPA-EPM program, 10 reported. View more information Program length 1 year Degree awarded MPA Application Deadlines Early Action: November 30 Fellowship Consideration: January 15 Final Deadline: February 15 Apply Now Visit SIPA Register for Information Session Request More Information Joint Japan/World Bank Graduate Scholarship Program SIPA’s MPA-EPM is a participating program in JJWBGSP. A JJWBGSP scholarship provides tuition, a monthly living stipend, round-trip airfare, health insurance, and travel allowance. Learn more and apply Contact Us Columbia University School of International and Public Affairs 420 West 118 Street | Suite 1303 212-854-6982 [email protected] Subscribe to Our Mailing List/Newsletter MPA-EPM HandBook 2020-2021 Quick Links Program Faculty MPA-EPM Careers MPA-EPM (PEPM) Ambassadors Meet a Current Student Connect with MPA-EPM Facebook Focus Areas MPA-EPM has three different curricular focuses: the traditional Economic Policy Management focus (EPM), the Energy & Environment focus (E&E) and the Central Banking and Financial Markets focus (CBFM). The EPM focus builds students' technical competence with the tools of economic management and policymaking, the GEMP focus teaches the fundamentals of the energy industry, including international energy systems and business organizations involved in the production, transportation, and marketing of energy products and the CBFM focus teaches the latest techniques in capital market development and macroprudential policy. Central Banking And Financial Markets (CBFM) Energy & Environment (E&E) Economic Policy Management (EPM) Learn more News August 13, 2021 MPA-EPM VIRTUAL REUNION 2021 MPA-EPM Virtual Reunion: Keynote: Post-COVID Economic Growth and Sustainable Development Video of MPA-EPM Virtual Reunion: Keynote: Post-COVID Economic Growth and Sustainable Development From July 26... August 10, 2021 SIPA Expands STEM Programs The STEM designation recognizes science-, engineering-, and math-intensive programs, and qualifies graduates with F-1 student visas to apply for additional work opportunities. All Program News Share This Spotlight Faculty MPA EPM - Jan Svejnar Video of Faculty MPA EPM - Jan Svejnar Faculty Perspective In this program, we offer a combination that you will not find anywhere else. Jan Svejnar, Faculty Alum MPA Econ Pol Mgmt - Spotlight Video of Alum MPA Econ Pol Mgmt - Spotlight Alumni Spotlight Our students go back to their institutions and have a multiplier effect on the people around them. Hany Kadry Dimian MPA-EPM 96 Minister of Finance Government of Egypt Alumni Spotlight The faculty have a lot of experience in academia, but also in policy. And the students and alumni come from all corners of the world. Santiago Peña MPA-EPM 03 Minister of Finance Central Bank of Paraguay Full Profile Alumni Profile: Ludwig Marek MPA-EPM '07 Video of Alumni Profile: Ludwig Marek MPA-EPM &amp;#039;07 Alumni Spotlight The EPM program really offered me to break away from journalism and then really go into the weeds in regards to microeconomics, macroeconomics; really actually looking behind the scenes in regards to how actual policies are determined. Ludwig Marek MPA-EPM 07 Head of U.S. Fixed Income Short Duration BlackRock Full Profile Faculty MPA EPM - Jan Svejnar Faculty Alum MPA Econ Pol Mgmt - Spotlight Alumni Alumni Alumni Profile: Ludwig Marek MPA-EPM '07 Alumni Alumni Spotlight Studying at SIPA and living in NY, helped me understand the complex relationship between politics, economics, and finance. Jitka Grundmanova Danini MIA 13 ICG Executive Office Lead Citi Full Profile Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216