Powercat chevron double-chevron chat-purple home computer window with a question mark close facebook linkedin menu search twitter youtube apply-purple apply-white chat-white request-purple request-white Jump to HeaderJump to Main ContentJump to Footer Kansas State University Connect Canvas OrgCentral Navigate KSIS HRIS Webmail Sign in Browse A-Z Research Search Search About As the nation's first operational land-grant university, K-State is dedicated to research that will better our community, state and world. It's why we exist. Learn more about the intellectual passions of our students, faculty and staff. A decade of research Looking back at 10 years of K-State milestones Read more in Seek magazine David Rosowsky David Rosowsky joined Kansas State University as vice president for research in July 2021. As VPR, Rosowsky serves as the university’s chief research officer, providing leadership and expertise in fostering a campus environment that promotes collaborative, interdisciplinary efforts and produces high-quality research and scholarly work. Rosowsky encourages and facilitates the integration and enhancement of research, scholarly and creative activities across the university’s colleges and multiple research centers and leads universitywide strategic research growth activities. Additionally, Rosowsky serves as chair of the board of directors for K-State Innovation Partners, K-State’s hub of corporate engagement, technology commercialization and economic development. Read more /research/about/profile/index.html Y purple medium-basic Read more 1400+ faculty members 90+ centers and institutes 9 colleges We will Our values, which we commit every day to living to the best of our individual and collective abilities. Read the statements Collaborate with K-StateAccess research and innovation through a collaboration with the university. Contact our staffGet in touch with K-State research faculty and staff. Office of the Vice President for Research 120 Fairchild Hall 1601 Vattier St, Manhattan, KS 66506‐0500 785-532-5110 | research@k-state.edu Contact Us Emergency Statements and Disclosures Accessibility KBOR Free Expression Statement © Kansas State University Updated Updated: 3/23/22