Skip to main content Computational Biology and Informatics Laboratory at the University of Pennsylvania Search form Search Login Register Main menu Home People Current Alumni Databases ErythronDB EuPathDB AmoebaDB CryptoDB GiardiaDB MicrosporidiaDB PiroplasmaDB PlasmoDB ToxoDB TriTrypDB TrichDB FungiDB GUS NIAGADS OrthoMCLDB Past Projects BetaCell EPConDB EpoDB gaia2 LENS ParaDBs plasmoMAP RAD SCGAP Tools AnnotCompute BEERS PaGE RUM STAR Strategies-WDK Past Projects apidots COGRIM GSIM Mouse Chr. 5 MSA STAC TESS tpWY UPSIDE VCFS Publications Join Us Contact Email Downloads Our Mission Welcome to the Computational Biology and Informatics Laboratory (CBIL) in the Institute for Biomedical Informatics. The goal of our work is to help make sense of the enormous amount of biomedical data generated by high-throughput genomic approaches and synthesize them into something more than the sum of the parts. To that end, we are developing tools that enable researchers to mine and integrate data from a variety of different sources and types of experiments. In particular we are applying these approaches to expand our understanding in the areas of diabetes and infectious disease. We model data with networks and reality with ontologies especially the Ontology for Biomedical Investigations (OBI) for the latter. CBIL is directed by Chris Stoeckert who is faculty in the Department of Genetics and the Genomics and Computational BIology Graduate Group in the Perelman School of Medicine and a member of the Penn Genome Frontiers Institute at the University of Pennsylvania. Dr. Stoeckert is a Board member of the Functional Genomics Data (FGED) Society. Department of Genetics Institute for Biomedical Informatics Genomics and Computational Biology Graduate Group Penn Genome Frontiers Institute Functional Genomics Data (FGED) Society Ontology for Biomedical Investigations News CBIL site content moving to GitHub Thursday, January 6, 2022 - 10:01 Selected content from this www.cbil.upenn.edu site will be migrated to https://cstoeckert.github.io./ over the course of 2022. Once the migration is complete, this CBIL site will be shut down. New release of OBIB Monday, August 9, 2021 - 11:45 We made a new release of the Ontology for Biobanking (http://obofoundry.org/ontology/obib.html) earlier this year (2021-02-02). The release includes new imports from OBI, updates of deprecated terms, new terms and fixes including those fixes identified by the OBO Foundry dashboard. A novel tool for standardizing clinical data in a semantically rich model Monday, January 4, 2021 - 11:25 As part of our TURBO project, we recently published a paper on "A novel tool for standardizing clinical data in a semantically rich model" in the Journal of Biomedical Informatics (https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590177X20300214). Our article is open access and our tool is at https://github.com/PennTURBO/semantic-engine. User login Username * Password * Request new password Powered by Drupal Theme by Danetsoft and Danang Probo Sayekti inspired by Maksimer