Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Current Students Course Registration Current Students Student Services and Support Learning SupportTutoringLibrariesDisability ResourcesAdult & Returning StudentsVeterans & Military StudentsCareer ServicesInternships Register for Courses Advising Course Search Deadlines Prior Learning Assessment Registration Student Success Online Course IntroSuccess StrategiesSmartStart Technology RequirementsResources Graduation Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Course Registration The Registrar's Office oversees registration at the University and is your chief point of contact for questions concerning registration information, including procedures, dates, problems, and assistance. Contact Information Location: 003 Wilder Tower (basement) Phone: 901.678.2810 Email: registrar@memphis.edu Hours: 8:00am - 4:30pm, Monday - Friday Main Website: www.memphis.edu/registrar/ Before Registration Opens Dates - Check the semester's Dates & Deadlines calendar to determine registration and term dates, including your first day to register. Registration Status - Check your Registration Status screen in the portal (Student page). Look in particular at: Holds - You cannot register if you have any Registration holds. Contact the office that placed the hold to determine how you can remove it. . Student Status messages - You must be a current student with an Active status for the term. If you see these messages--"you have no registration time ticket," "you require readmission," "your status prevents registration,"--you must apply for admission or readmission before registering. (NOTE: When you skip a Fall or Spring term, your status changes to "Inactive" and you must be readmitted.) Advising - Since you are a degree-seeking student, you must be cleared to register by your advisor or (advising unit). You will work with your advisor to determine what courses you are to register for. Your advisor will give you the CRNs (Course Record Numbers) for these courses; these CRNs are what you need to enter when registration opens. Once Registration Opens Login and Register - Register online through the myMemphis portal. Once in the portal, look for the Registration Tools portlet on your Student page. Select the Add or Drop Classes screen, enter the course CRNs that your advisor has given to you, and then click the "Submit" button at the bottom of the screen once you have entered your CRNs. If you encounter problems trying to register, contact our office. Pay - Pay your fees online (select your Account$ page in the portal) after you have registered. About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/16/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.