Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Admission Visit Information for: Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Non-Degree Students Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Dean Stanton Wortham Mission & History About Carolyn and Peter Lynch Facts & Figures Contact Related Links Catholic Education Research Initiative Formative Education Initiative Admission Overview Why LSEHD? Tuition & Aid Deadlines & Requirements Request Info Related Links Undergraduate Admission & Aid Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Academics Overview Undergraduate Programs Applied Psychology and Human Development Elementary Education Secondary Education Transformative Educational Studies Lynch School Minors Interdisciplinary Majors Experience, Reflection, Action (ERA) Study Abroad Internal Transfer Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Professional & Continuing Education professional-certificates-instructional-design Certificate Programs Certificate in Human Rights and International Justice Certificate in Positive Youth Development Certificate in Child and Family Mental Health Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in International Higher Education Certificate in Institutional Research Certificate in Serving Exceptional Learners in Catholic Schools Certificate in Autism Spectrum Disorder Certificate in Bilingual Education Certificate in Deafblindness Certificate in Special Education Certificate in Teaching English Language Learners Online Programs Commencement Summer Session Departments CDEP Master of Arts (M.A.) in Mental Health Counseling Master of Arts (M.A.) in School Counseling Dual Master of Arts (M.A./M.A.) in Theology and Ministry and Counseling Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Counseling Psychology Counseling Practicum Applied Psychology Practicum z_archive applied-developmental-and-educational-psychology-ma /counseling-psychology-phd Test Page school-counseling mental-health-counseling counseling-psychology-phd Faculty & Expertise Counseling Practicum Program Offerings Admission Mission Program Aims & Learning Outcomes Student Admissions, Outcomes, & Other Data About Our Program Counseling Psychology Accreditation Professional Associations Academics & Training ELHE Educational Leadership and Policy, M.Ed. Master of Arts (M.A.) in Higher Education Higher Education Interview Days Master of Arts (M.A.) in International Higher Education Dual Degree Program (M.A./M.B.A.) Dual Degree Program (J.D./M.Ed./M.A.) Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Educational Leadership Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Higher Education _z_archive Certificate in Social Justice Leadership About Us Higher Education Scholars @ BC Blog higher-education-ma Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Information master-of-arts-in-higher-education-master-of-business-administra law-and-education-dual-degree-programs Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in Educational Policy Development Educational Leadership & Higher Education Blog Field Experience Program History Higher Education FAQ Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Mary Kinnane Award IDPG Master of Arts (M.A.) in Learning Engineering _z_archive MESA M.S. in Applied Statistics and Psychometrics M.A. in Research and Evaluation Methods Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment _z_archive Test New MESA Faculty Member Mission Statement Margeau Jong MESA Testimonials applied-statistics-and-psychometrics-ms Graduate Testimonials Graduate Voices MESA Students MESA Alumni & Employment Data MESA Research TCS Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Curriculum and Instruction Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Early Childhood Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Elementary Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Jesuit Education in a Global World Master of Education (M.Ed., C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Moderate Support Needs Master of Education in Secondary Education Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Extensive Support Needs Global Perspectives Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Curriculum and Instruction Special Education Licensure Offerings M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Moderate Support Needs M.Ed. in Moderate & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Secondary Education & Moderate Support Needs Urban Catholic Teacher Corps Student Teaching _z_archive Teacher Certification Related Links Programs of Study Student Teaching Academic Calendar Study Abroad Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory & Expertise Research Opportunities AERA 2022 Presentations APA 2021 Presentations Related Links News & Videos Academic Calendar Centers & Initiatives Overview Administrators in Catholic Higher Ed Catholic Education Research Community Justice & Engaged Pedagogy Early Childhood Policy Equitable Instruction Initiative Formative Education International Higher Ed International Human Rights Center for Thriving Children Psychological Humanities & Ethics Roche Center Testing, Evaluation, & Educational Policy The Campus School The Study of Race & Culture TIMSS & PIRLS International Study Center Urban Outreach Initiatives Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars Program Work Intervention Network Community Overview Mentoring & Advising Service Learning Living in Boston Global BC Resources Related Links Diversity & Inclusion Global Faculty Directory & Expertise BC Campus Life BC Veterans News & Videos Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Lynch School Website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Admission Visit Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Non-Degree Students BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close home Academics Undergraduate Programs Applied Psychology and Human Development Undergraduate Programs Applied Psychology and Human Development Elementary Education Secondary Education Transformative Educational Studies Lynch School Minors Interdisciplinary Majors Experience, Reflection, Action (ERA) Study Abroad Internal Transfer Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in Applied Psychology and Human Development CDEP Counseling, Developmental & Educational Psychology Do you want to enrich the lives of children and adults every day? Do you want to understand the interface between human development and health, between psychology and the workplace, and between knowledge and action? If so, then a degree in Applied Psychology and Human Development is your first step. Apply Inquire By the Numbers 35% of our students go directly into graduate training CDEP Survey 58% of our students go directly into employment CDEP Survey Curriculum The Applied Psychology and Human Development program in the Lynch School of Education and Human Development is a top choice among Boston College undergraduates. Our focus is on meaningful learning in the classroom applied to real-world issues across local, national, and international contexts. The program will help you: Understand the key tasks and processes underlying human development from infancy to adulthood Recognize how social and cultural contexts shape developmental and psychological processes Learn key research methods and statistical approaches used to study human development and psychology Gain skills in critically evaluating and translating scientific evidence from psychology and human development to real-world settings Develop a specialized understanding of a targeted focus area of study to prepare for a range of further education and career pathways Requirements Courses: 12 Credits: 37 Field Practicum Program of Study Learning Goals & Focus Areas This program opens up a variety of future options in fields of human resources, counseling psychology, health, education, research, community programming, leadership, or policy and law. It will prepare you to contribute to society through service, action, and leadership. It also allows you to study key areas that are at the forefront of current social and educational challenges confronting society: health, human capital, advocacy and policy, and applications to learning. You'll develop a specialized understanding of a targeted focus area of study to prepare for a range of further education and career pathways, including: Human Services and Health Sciences: Understand psychosocial challenges to healthy development across the lifespan, and learn about a range of individual and community-level strategies to prevent mental and physical illness and enhance psychosocial health and well-being. Organizational Studies and Human Capital: Focus on the intersection of individuals and work/organizational contexts, with the goal of applying the science of psychology and human development to interpersonal relationships, organizational settings, and the workplace. Policy, Advocacy and Community Change: Understand individual, community, and government roles in sustaining or challenging social and economic inequities affecting human development. Assess how psychological science informs policies and programs designed to address pervasive social problems. Science of Learning: Understand cognitive, motivational, and affective processes that underlie learning and behavior across diverse contexts, and learn to translate this knowledge into educational and behavioral practice. Learn More about the Four Focus Areas Accreditation The Lynch School has a long history of national accreditation, which includes NCATE (National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education), TEAC (Teacher Education Accreditation Council), and CAEP (Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation). Most recently, the Lynch School was granted full and complete accreditation through CAEP, valid from Fall 2018 through Spring 2024. Boston College is currently the only CAEP accredited education preparation organization in Massachusetts. Learn More about State Regulations Program Features World-Renowned Faculty Internationally recognized faculty in applied developmental, educational, and counseling psychology Real-World Learning A foundational six-course sequence in human development across the lifespan, the analytic tools central to social sciences, and the application of applied psychology to real-world settings Purpose-driven Education An integrated field placement and course that helps students identify their purpose, including future career and life aspirations Flexibility The flexibility to choose one of four focus areas: Human Services and Health Sciences; Organizational Studies and Human Capital; Policy, Advocacy and Community Change; or Science of Learning Customization A wide-ranging set of electives from within the program and across BC, so that each student can frame their major to meet their individual interests and career goals Careers PricewaterhouseCoopers, Associate Oracle, Sales Representative Massachusetts General Hospital, Research Assistant Pegasystems, Human Resources Coordinator Hill Holiday, Assistant Account Executive Asian Task Force Against Domestic Violence, Social Worker Brandeis University, International Coordinator Wellington Management, Business Associate Starcom Media Vest, Junior Media Associate Program Faculty View More View Less Why study psychology in a school of education? The Applied Psychology and Human Development major in the Lynch School of Education emphasizes state of the art connections between research, theory, and practice. Through practica and community involvement, students gain real-world experience and graduate prepared to apply what they learned in an array of community, education, business, and policy settings. Quick Links Facts & Figures Faculty Why LSEHD? Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Tuition & Aid Back To Top Back To Top Carolyn A. and Peter S. Lynch School of Education and Human Development Campion Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4200 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Community Apply Visit Give CONNECT WITH US Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College