Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Division of Student Affairs Menu Toggle Search Cyclones Forever Cyclone Support Sexual Assault Contact Us Main navigation Home About Mission & Priorities Meet the VP Senior Leaders Organization Chart Reporting Units Campus Life Central Office Dean of Students Office Student Health and Wellness Directory Impact Assessment By The Numbers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Outside the Classroom Reports Students Career Competencies Co-Curricular Learning Domains Scholarships Student Organization Funding Staff Resources Assessment Awards CARE Recognition Committees Communications Events Calendar Division Meetings Policies Professional Development Self-Guided Help Online Programs We know time and schedules can stand in the way to engaging in activities that support your wellbeing. To help – we created a series of self-guided programs that you can do on your time! The programs are brief (15-60 minutes) and provide you will skills and strategies in a number of different areas to help enhance your wellbeing! Learn More Wellbeing Self-Assessment Take the confidential, 10 minute brief wellbeing self-assessment. Learn about areas of wellbeing that may be affecting your experience at ISU and get connected to learn more about resources for support! Learn More App (Therapy Assistance Online) An online library of engaging, interactive programs that help you with a variety of mental health and wellbeing concerns. Learn More Self-Care Resources for BIPOC students Canvas Course module that includes community and online resources for Black, Indigenous and People of Color (BIPOC) communities. Learn More Skills Corner Short videos from Student Counseling Services staff on self-help and skill building related to mental health Learn More Recreation Services E-Sports/Gaming Facilities (exercise on Your own time) Outdoor Rec (equipment rental) Mind - Body Spa Series of short videos and exercises focused on mindfulness. Learn More Spend Smart, Eat Smart App An app and website based on meal planning, grocery budgeting, and other skills to help students prepare meals. Includes videos, recipes, and other information. Learn More Iowa State University Division of Student Affairs Office of the Senior Vice President and Provost Division of Operations and Finance Office of the President Contact 2350 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Road Ames, IA 50011 Summer Hours | May 16- August 12; Monday- Friday, 7:30 a.m.- 4 p.m. studentaffairs@iastate.edu 515-294-4420 phone Give Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...