Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Retreats Home Retreats Retreats provide important opportunities to pause, reflect, and be refreshed. Campus Ministry’s retreat program offers a variety of experiences designed to help students of all faith backgrounds become more attentive to themselves, others, and God. Art and Soul Companions Ignite for First-Year Students Kairos Lenten Mini Retreat Manresa Silent Retreat Multifaith Retreat Pause and Pray Study by the Sea Spiritual Direction Art and Soul Retreat Engage your creativity as a spiritual practice on this 24-hour retreat. No art experience is needed! Art and Soul is a mid-semester break to deeply llisten to yourself, others, and God in new, poignant, and playful ways. What's it like? Choose your own prayer adventure from a variety of mediums, including collaging, painting, creative writing, spoken word and drawing Encounter the Ignatian "call and response" of God through prompts designed to help you grow in self-understanding and discernment Balanced time for individual reflection and community sharing Opportunities for prayer, walking the outdoor labyrinth and Mass in a peaceful setting Retreatants will stay in single, double or triple occupancy rooms at Glastonbury Abbey in Hingham, MA Transportation is provided Who attends? Open to all BC students. This retreat is grounded in Ignatian Spirituality, but accessible to people of all faith traditions and worldviews seeking to better understand themselves and their relationship to the greater good. Sponsored by the CLC Program. Cost? The cost of the retreat is $75 including food and materials. Campus Ministry wants to ensure that cost does not prohibit any student from attending. Please indicate if a financial need exists within the application and a campus minister will be in touch. Questions? Reach out to the Campus Minister for CLC, Christine Kamp Cichello. Register Companions Retreat The Companions Retreat is a 6-week Ignatian, integrated experience for students seeking connection, prayer and spiritual conversation in their daily lives. Retreat materials, small-group faith sharing, and large group gatherings are offered on campus throughout the semester. Each student will also meet with a spiritual companion from Boston College, including faculty, staff, administrators, Jesuits, and graduate students. What's it like? The Companions Retreat offers individual and shared spiritual support through the lens of Ignatian spirituality and life of St. Ignatius - seeking God in everyday experiences, deepening practices of prayer and reflection, and staying connected as companions on the journey through the semester. The retreat begins with an opening gathering on Sunday, October 3, 2021, from 1:00 - 2:30pm and concludes with a closing gathering on Sunday, November 14, 2021, from 1:00 - 2:30pm. Over the course of 6 weeks, students will receive prayer and reflection materials, gather for small-group prayer and reflection, and meet biweekly with an assigned spiritual companion on campus. Who attends? All undergraduate and graduate students are welcome to participate in the Companions Retreat. The retreat is rooted in the Catholic, Ignatian tradition, and is open to students of all faith backgrounds. Cost? The cost of the retreat is $30, including food and retreat materials. Campus Ministry wants to ensure that cost does not prohibit any student from attending the Companions Retreat. Please indicate if a financial need exists within the application and a campus minister will be in touch. Questions? Reach out to cmretreats@bc.edu or contact Kelly Hughes, campus minister for retreats. Register The registration deadline for the Companions Retreat is Thursday, September 30 at 11:59 p.m. Ignite Retreat for First-Year Students Ignite your faith at Boston College by making meaningful relationships and gaining a deeper understanding of Ignatian Spirituality. This off-campus retreat is a fun and interactive way to consider what matters most to you as you continue your first year at Boston College. What's it like? Find community with fellow first-year students seeking to lead lives of faith and justice Learn practices to help you become more grounded and attentive to the presence of God in your life, such as the Ignatian Examen Reflect upon your core stories and vision for the rest of your college experience Participate in small group discussions and listen to talks by student leaders about the transition to college Opportunities for rest and prayer, including MassRetreatants will stay at Rolling Ridge Conference Center (North Andover, MA), with food, transportation, and retreat materials provided. This year's Ignite Retreat will be held from Friday, February 4, 2022 at 4pm to Sunday, February 6, 2022 at 2pm. Who attends? Ignite welcomes all first-year undergraduate students. The retreat is rooted in the Catholic, Ignatian tradition, but all students seeking to lead lives of faith and justice can benefit from this welcoming and reflective experience. The retreat is open to students of all faith backgrounds. Space is limited, so please apply as soon as possible. Cost? The cost of the retreat is $75, including lodging, food, transportation, and retreat materials. Campus Ministry wants to ensure that cost does not prohibit any student from attending the Ignite Retreat for First-Year Students. Please indicate if a financial need exists within the application and a campus minister will be in touch. Questions? Reach out to cmretreats@bc.edu or contact Campus Minister for Retreats, Kelly Hughes. Register The registration deadline for the Ignite Retreat for First-Year Students is Monday, January 31 at 11:59 p.m. Kairos Kairos – meaning “God’s Time” in Greek – is a student-facilitated weekend retreat that allows for intentional reflection on relationships with God, self, and others away from the chaos of campus. Kairos is offered 12 times a year. What's it like? Enjoy a weekend away to relax, reflect, and refocus Hear from other students about relationships, faith, and reflections on life Listen, share, and build community with students you might not otherwise meet Experience special Kairos surprises! Who attends? Kairos is open to students of all faith backgrounds and experiences. While the retreat is rooted in the Ignatian, Catholic tradition, any student who is willing to engage in spiritual reflection can get something out of the weekend! All undergraduate students are welcome to join the waiting list. Students are selected at random from the list and invited to attend the retreat. You'll be notified by email if your name has been drawn from the lottery. Our October retreats are exclusively for seniors. November and December are open to seniors, juniors, and sophomores. All class years are eligible to attend in the spring. Questions? Contact Marissa Papula. ** If you have attended Kairos or a similar retreat (Search, Emmaus, DDA, XLI), please email kairos@bc.edu. While students who have already attended should NOT join the waiting list, they can engage in the community in other ways and apply to lead! Email us for more information. ** Sign Up for Kairos If you are a graduate student, administrator, or alumnus interested in directing a Kairos retreat, please email Marissa Papula. Learning Outcomes After students complete a Kairos retreat, they will be able to: Articulate their experience of unconditional love (agape), and recognize the presence of unconditional love in their relationships with themselves, others, and their spirituality. Identify God’s love as unconditional, and take new, practical steps in exploring their faith and spirituality. Commit to intentionally act more lovingly in their families, friendships and communities in concrete, tangible ways. Lenten Mini Retreat Deepen your experience of the Lenten season by praying the Way of the Cross through the lens of Ignatian Contemplation. This on-campus mini-retreat engages the heart and mind through imagination, shared reflection, and prayer about the way in which our suffering is intimately connected to the final events of Jesus’ life. When? Friday, April 8, 2022 from 5:00 - 6:30 p.m. in Thomas More Apartments Commons (109) at 2150 Commonwealth Avenue Who attends? Open to all members of the Boston College community. Cost? This retreat is $15, including dinner and retreat materials. Please indicate if a financial need exists within the application and a campus minister will be in touch. Questions? Reach out to cmretreats@bc.edu or contact Kelly Hughes, campus minister for retreats. Register The registration deadline for the Lenten Mini Retreat is April 4th at 11:59 p.m. EST Manresa Silent Retreat Manresa is a silent retreat based on St. Ignatius of Loyola’s Spiritual Exercises. Held each year during winter break at BC's beautiful Connors Family Retreat Center, Manresa is a time of quiet, reflection, and prayer with an open, flexible schedule in a peaceful setting. What's it like? Plenty of time to rest, explore the grounds, pray, reflect, and just be, free of the pressures and stress of daily campus life Retreatants meet individually with a spiritual director each day to explore questions about faith, justice, and meaning. Directors include campus ministers, Jesuits, and other BC faculty and staff Daily opportunities to attend Mass and prayer services based upon the Spiritual Exercises, as well as, contemplative offerings including art, meditation and movement Retreatants will stay in single occupancy rooms at the Connors Family Retreat Center in Dover, MA. Lodging, food and transportation is provided. This year's Manresa Silent Retreat will be held from Saturday, January 15, 2022 through Monday, January 17, 2022 at the Connors Family Retreat Center (Dover, MA). Retreatans will depart from campus at 9:00 a.m. on Saturday and return to campus by 3:00 p.m. on Monday. Who attends? All undergraduate and graduate students are welcome on the Manresa Silent Retreat. This retreat is rooted in the Catholic, Ignatian tradition, but all students seeking to lead lives of faith and justice can benefit from the silence, reflection, and peaceful environment. The retreat is open to students of all faith backgrounds. If a student is not Christian, Campus Ministry aims to provide a spiritual director from one's own tradition. Space is limited, so please apply as soon as possible. Cost? The cost of the retreat is $75, including lodging, food, transportation, and retreat materials. Campus Ministry wants to ensure that cost does not prohibit any student from attending the Manresa Silent Retreat. Please indicate if a financial need exists within the application and a campus minister will be in touch. Questions? Reach out to cmretreats@bc.edu or contact Campus Minister for Retreats, Kelly Hughes. Register The registration deadline for the Manresa Silent Retreat is Thursday, December 9 at 11:59 p.m. Learning Outcomes After participation in the Manresa Retreat, students will be able to: Describe at least one aspect of their faith or spirituality that is more hopeful or empowering from what it had been prior to participating in the retreat. Identify a concept or prayer within Ignatian spirituality that they encountered on the retreat and describe how it relates to at least one experience from their life. Articulate an insight from the retreat that relates to their relationship with themselves, someone else, or God. Multifaith Retreat The Multifaith Retreat brings together students of different faiths, traditions, and worldviews to find common values, share in friendship and experience, and together become advocates for interfaith cooperation. This overnight retreat seeks to foster community among the many religions celebrated at Boston College. Our Jesuit, Catholic mission calls us to support students of all faiths in their search for ultimate meaning. Students will both reflect upon their religious identities, and deepen their understanding of the religious experiences of others. What’s it like? Build relationships with fellow students through large and small group interfaith dialogue Opportunities for prayer and reflection with respect to religious differences Located at a beautiful seaside setting Be inspired by student leaders and interfaith activists who creatively and courageously counter faith-based hate Stay connected post-retreat by engaging in shared action towards the common good such as the Multi-Faith Thanksgiving Celebration and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial Gathering Retreatans will stay at Friendly Crossways Retreat Center (Harvard, MA). Transportation will be provided. This year's Multifaith Retreat will be held from Saturday, November 6, 2021 through Sunday, November 7, 2021 at Friendly Crossways Retreat Center (Harvard, MA). Retreatants will depart from campus at 11:00 a.m. on Saturday and return to campus by 2:00 p.m on Sunday. Who attends? The Multifaith Retreat invites and welcomes undergraduate students of all faith backgrounds and wisdom traditions. Space is limited and our goal is to select a diverse group of students in order to create a balanced and representative group. Please be sure to apply as soon as possible. Cost? The cost of the retreat is $45, including lodging, food, transportation, and retreat materials. Campus Ministry wants to ensure that cost does not prohibit any student from attending the Multifaith Retreat. Please indicate if a financial need exists within the application and a campus minister will be in touch. Questions? Reach out to cmretreats@bc.edu or contact Campus Minister for Retreats, Kelly Hughes. Registration The registration deadline for the Multifaith Retreat is Monday, November 1 at 11:59 p.m. Pause and Pray Pause and Pray is a weekly, outdoor “retreat moment” for students to exhale, to reflect, and to be spiritually renewed through the end of the semester. What's it like? Students gather together on Monday evenings at 6:30 p.m. at St. Joe's chapel for a 45-minute reflection of music, journaling, prayer, and mindfulness. Each week, student facilitators introduce an Ignatian theme, and students share together in discussion and hospitality. Dinner to-go and materials are provided free of charge. Pre-registration is required each week, and space is limited. Gift yourself a retreat moment on a Monday night! Monday, March 28 Monday, April 4 Monday, April 11 Monday, April 25 Monday, May 2 *During the colder months, Pause and Pray will be moved to our indoor location at St. Joseph's Chapel Who attends? All undergraduate and graduate students are welcome to join Pause and Pray. Retreat moments are rooted in the Catholic, Ignatian tradition, and are open and accessible to students of all faith backgrounds. Any student looking to learn more about a retreat or Campus Ministry are most welcome to participate in Pause and Pray! Pause and Pray also invites campus collaboration with other student leaders and organizations. Please contact Kelly Hughes if interested in leading and/or co-hosting a Pause and Pray moment! Cost? Pause and Pray is free of charge, with food and retreat materials provided. Questions? Reach out to cmretreats@bc.edu or contact Kelly Hughes, campus minister for retreats. Register Study by the Sea Get the most of your study days by getting away from the distractions of campus life! Study, write papers, and reflect about your semester on the beautiful shores of Cohasset, MA. Our Catholic, Jesuit identity encourages the practice of "cure personalis", which is Latin for care of the whole person - mind, body, spirit, and soul. Come and Study by the Sea to learn the practice of Cura Personalis as you prepare for final exams! What's it like? Enjoy an open and flexible schedule to study, eat home-cooked meals, and rest at your own pace. Retreatans will have a private room with a desk and access to shared study space with ocean views. Opportunities for prayer and reflection, including spiritual direction and Mass, with contemplative offerings including art, meditation, and movement. Study by the Sea is offered at the end of both the fall and spring semester. Transportation is provided. Who attends? All undergraduate students are welcome to participate in the Study by the Sea Retreat. The retreat is rooted in the Catholic, Ignatian tradition, and is open to students of all faith backgrounds. Space is limited, so please apply as soon as possible. Cost? The cost of the retreat is $45, including lodging, food, materials, and transportation. Campus Ministry wants to ensure that cost does not prohibit any student from attending. Please indicate if a financial need exists within the application and a campus minister will be in touch. Questions? Reach out to cmretreats@bc.edu or contact Campus Minister for Retreats, Kelly Hughes. Fall 2021 Retreat Registration for the Fall 2021 Study by the Sea retreat has been closed. Spring 2022 Retreat The registration deadline for the Spring 2022 Study by the Sea Retreat is Monday, May 2 at 11:59 p.m. Spiritual Direction Spiritual Direction is an on-going relationship between a "directee" (person seeking direction) or "retreatant" (person making a retreat) and a "director" (qualified person giving guidance) to discuss the directee's spiritual life. Through conversation and reflection, the directee becomes more attuned to God's presence in their life, and can respond more fully to God in all areas of their life. Logistics Typically, spiritual direction is half-to one-hour, one-on-one conversation between director and directee in some quiet, private setting. Spiritual direction can take place either in the context of a retreat or in regular, everyday life on an ongoing basis - in which case meeting frequency is usually about once a month. The focus of the meetings is the directee's relationship with God within all aspects of life. The directee leads the direction of the conversation. Context The directee assumes responsibility for their life with God, working to incorporate some form of intentional reflection on their relationshiop with God. This may or may not include an experience or practice of some form of prayer, understanding that "prayer" can take various forms (formal and informal, e.g.). During the meeting, director and directee seek to enter into a prayerful atmosphere where together they can be attentive to the movement of the Holy Spirit in the directee's life. Methods The director may listen, question, challenge, and support the directee, and may suggest methods and specific content of prayer. Ultimately the directee must own whatever insights they uncover or course of action they decide to take; the director is a facilitator in the process, and the directee must claim the journey. Director/Directee Relationship Given the intimate nature of spiritual direction, the relationship and personal dynamic between the director and directee is paramout, and must be comfortable for each. This may take a few sessions to decide on. It is important that a directee feels free to seek out a new director if they are not ultimately comfortable with the dynamic. Spiritual Direction v. Therapy/Counseling In contrast with therapy/counseling, spiriual companioning/direction is fundamentally concerned with a person's relationship with God: with recognizing and responding to God in regular, ongoing, daily life as well as in the midst of specific issues of struggle or disorder. Therapy is not necessarily or fundamentally concerned with a person's relationship with God. Problem solving is not the primary focus of spiritual direction , whereas it can be in therapy. A spiritual companion may refer a retreatant to counseling if appropriate. Setting up Spiritual Direction at Boston College There are many people at Boston College who are qualified spiritual directors - laymen and women, Jesuits, and men and women in other religious orders. Current BC undergraduate or graduate students interested in spiritual direction can register through the link below. Please contact Ellen Modica at ellen.modica@bc.edu or (617) 552-4665 with any questions. Register Follow #RetreatsAtBC on Instagram At the Table “I enjoyed getting to hear people's perspectives who I otherwise would have not met on campus.” Pause and Pray “I loved the journaling. I find that so helpful and this was such a great moment to reflect on busy college life.” Companions “I had a great conversation about spirituality and career inspiration with my companion!” Pause and Pray “Reflecting outside in the quiet evening was such a peacfeul setting and really complimented the activites well.” Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry McElroy 233 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3475 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College