Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > January 13, 2022: COVID Update COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff January 13, 2022: COVID Update Dear Colleagues, We wanted to take a moment to acknowledge again that these are trying times as we are, yet again, coping with the health of our patients, our families and ourselves. We hope that you take care of yourself, and remember the amazing resources offered by CopeColumbia. While we know that rates remain extraordinarily high in NYC, the rapid rise of the 7-day percent positivity has stabilized. Based on what we are seeing locally as well as experience from outside of the United States, we are cautiously optimistic that we may indeed be at the peak, and we hope we will then see the decline in cases we saw after the last large wave in the Spring of 2021. The good news is that the vaccine is highly protective against severe illness and hospitalization - while we know faculty and staff are vaccinated, please encourage your friends and family to get vaccinated/boosted. This includes children 5 and over. There have been over 8.4 million children reported with COVID-19 (and we know that is an undercount). However, only 25% of 5-11 year olds across the US have been vaccinated. Here in NYC, there are still 41.4% of children 5-17 who have not received any doses. Flu vaccination is now required for all faculty and staff, in addition to the covid booster. Influenza activity is elevated in NYC, for both influenza A and influenza B. People can get their flu shot at WHS through 2/11/22, at a pharmacy or at their own doctor. Reminders of deadline: Columbia University has mandated boosters for all faculty, staff and students effective January 31, 2022. Those who have had a previous infection still need to receive their booster by the deadline. People without a contraindication for vaccination can get vaccinated once they have recovered from their illness and have met the criteria for discontinuing isolation; those without symptoms can be vaccinated once they have met the criteria for discontinuing isolation. Information about how to upload booster status is forthcoming. 51 W. 51st Street Booster Schedule — January Booster Session Opening Schedule through Connect Friday, January 14, 9am–12pm 1/7 at 8am Friday, January 14, 1pm–4pm Employee Walk-Ins Tuesday, January 18, 1pm–4:30pm 1/14 at 8am Wednesday, January 19, 1pm–4:30pm 1/14 at 8am Friday, January 21, 9am–12pm 1/14 at 8am Friday, January 21, 1pm–4pm Employee Walk-Ins Tueday, January 25, 1pm–4:30pm 1/21 at 8am Wednesday, January 26, 1pm–4:30pm 1/21 at 8am Friday, January 28, 9am–12pm 1/21 at 8am Friday, January 28, 1pm–4pm Employee Walk-Ins ColumbiaDoctors primary care patients may also get a booster during a regular primary care visit. It is also fine to get a booster at a pharmacy or other vaccine site. Governor Hochul has announced new testing sites at four MTA subway stations, including the 125th Street station (A, B, C, D lines). More information is available here. Thank you and stay safe! Donna Lynne, DrPH Sr. Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC University COVID Director Magda Sobieszczyk, MD, MPH Chief of Infectious Diseases and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Melissa Stockwell, MD, MPH Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top