UH Today — University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Today Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search TOP STORIES Fourteen Undergraduates Conduct Physics and Geoscience Experiments in Alaska UH students spent three weeks in Alaska conducting physics and geoscience experiments with Edgar Bering, professor in the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics. The project was part of a two-year program teaching students to study physics, atmospheric science and earth science. Read more … Students Recognized for Global Knowledge and Skills Eighteen students were recognized by Executive Director of the UH Institute for Global Engagement Michael Pelletier during the May 12 Global Citizens Credential Ceremony at M.D. Anderson Library’s Rockwell Pavilion. Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost Paula Myrick Short also acknowledged the students for their achievements. Read more … Prepare for Hurricane Season 2022 Hurricane season begins Wednesday, June 1, and UH is ensuring we’re prepared. Be sure to review the latest information from the Office of Emergency Management and confirm your contact details for emergency notifications.  Read more … HR Information at Your Fingertips Find helpful information about UH processes, resources, benefits, trainings and wellness programs in the HR Online Resource Guide. Select items in the menu on the left side of the page or use the search option for specific information.  Read more … Our People While earning their UH Master of Fine Arts degrees in 2021, Liz Gates and Doug Welsh launched the G5 Summer Intensive to support graduate art students and emerging Houston artists. During the early stages of COVID-19, grant money dried up and fellowship opportunities vanished; rather than bide their time and wait for the worst of the pandemic’s impact on the arts to subside, Gates and Welsh forged their own path. Read more. Professor Frank McKeon and Associate Professor Wa Xian in the Department of Biology and Biochemistry and the UH Stem Cell Center are working to help identify the source of lung inflammation in those with cystic fibrosis. McKeon and Xian received a $2.7 million grant from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. Read more. Five graduate students worked with members of UH Libraries Digital Research Commons to develop the digital parts of their dissertations. The students were selected by application to attend the Spring 2022 Digital Research Institute, a multi-day intensive experience aimed at building the foundational skills and knowledge needed to create digital research. Read more. The UH System Board of Regents granted emeritus status to Senior Vice President of Academic Affairs and Provost Paula Myrick Short, recognizing her many contributions to the University. To earn this achievement in higher education, one must demonstrate an unwavering commitment to an institution and its mission. Read more. Our Campus The Cougar Grounds coffee shop located in the south wing of the Hilton University of Houston, remains open throughout hotel construction, with summer hours of 7 a.m. to 2 p.m., Monday – Friday. As a reminder, the hotel lobby remains closed through Monday, Sept. 5. Read more. UH took home four awards for marketing and communication excellence from the American Marketing Association at the 36th annual AMA Houston Crystal Awards ceremony. This year’s winners were selected among more than 150 marketing, communications, advertising, design and public relations professionals. Read more. The Kathrine G. McGovern College of Arts will proudly present “Little Shop of Horrors” as the college’s first ever full-scale musical production Friday through Saturday, May 27 – 29, at Moores Opera House. The event will mark the first collaborative production by students and faculty from Moores School of Music and the School of Theatre & Dance. Read more. The Hilton University of Houston is still open for business during construction of new five-story hotel tower, although the lobby is closed through Monday, Sept. 5. To accommodate guests, both Eric’s Restaurant and the front desk will be temporarily relocated to the second floor of the hotel. Read more. × UH HEALTH ALERT The University of Houston continues to closely monitor the global outbreak of COVID-19. For a detailed explanation and additional information about COVID-19, please visit this UH COVID-19 website. Reminder: Free COVID-19 Testing Available on Campus The Curative kiosk is located in front of Student Center South. Event Save the Date: Take Your Child to Work Day Friday, June 10 See the full calendar for a complete list of events. Please See COVID-19 Page for event protcol updates. SPOTLIGHT: Historic $50M Gift to UH College of Medicine Chairman of the UH System Board of Regents Tilman J. Fertitta and his family pledged a historic $50 million gift to the UH College of Medicine. In return, the college will now be known as the Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine. This transformational gift not only will strengthen the capabilities of the college, but also will help faculty, staff and students fulfill their mission of serving the underserved in Houston and beyond. Support & Services Need IT help? Want to talk to Human Resources? Have to straighten out your parking permit? Find the help you need with this comprehensive listing of resources for all UH faculty and staff members. About UH Today UH Today is an official University of Houston communication for faculty and staff. UH Today, which includes this website and a daily email digest, reports on important human resources and University policy issues, provides institutional and employee features and covers awards, appointments and events information as well as other items of interest to the UH campus. UH Today Resources News Archive UH Magazine Archive UH Multimedia Contact us Other News Sources Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts C. T. Bauer College of Business College of Education Cullen College of Engineering The Honors College Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management UH Law Center College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences College of Medicine College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics College of Nursing College of Optometry College of Pharmacy College of Technology Graduate College of Social Work UH Libraries Administration and Finance Office of the Provost The Cougar CoogNews University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies