Home • Student Government • Iowa State University Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Student Government Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Submit an Idea! Contact Us Login Home About About page StuGov Structure Breakdown Directory Fireside Chats Committees Civic Engagement Committee Diversity and Inclusion Committee Election Commission Finance Committee Health and Wellness Committee Legislative Ambassadors Outreach Ambassadors Public Relations Committee Rules Committee Student Initiatives Committee Sustainability Committee Get Involved Get Involved Overview Positions Available Student Government Elections Election Overview Vote! Run for an Election Candidate Information Election Debates Election Commission Funding Funding Overview Funding Application Form Carryover Request Form Line Item Transfer Request Form Finance Committee Branches Weekly Meetings Overview Judicial Branch Legislative Branch Legislation Overview Executive Branch Document Library Home Apply to Be a Supreme Court Justice Apply Your 2021 Student Government Senate Some of StuGov's Cabinet members enjoy an afternoon at CyBowl and Billiards Election Commission at the Spring 2021 Inauguration Election Commision after confirming new members Student Body Presidents from 2005 to 2020 recognized during the CyHawk game President Graber, Vice President Bhatia, Finance Director Mueller, and Director of Outreach Swartz at the Homecoming Parade Student Government at the Big 12 Conference! 2019 Homecoming Parade SAAC Chase Allen, President Wintersteen, Marcel Spears, and President Graber at Jack Trice Reception Jack Trice Reception 2019 Student Government Retreat Picture Meet the Legislative Branch of the Student Government 2019 Board of Regents Meeting at UNI President Graber and Vice President Bhatia with Presidents and Vice Presidents of UNI and Iowa at a Board of Regents Training Senators of the Student Government Meet the amazing Student Government Student Government Senate Meeting Meet the Student Government Vice-President Bhatia at an event Student Government on Halloween! Senate Meeting Picture Student Government meeting with the president. Previous Next Campanile, July 20, 2015. Credit: Christopher Gannon About Us Projects & Initiatives Get Involved Funding Weekly Meetings Legislation StuGov Projects View the projects that we are proud of in the Student Government Open Page View the Directory Find more about the Student Government members View Directory Senate Meetings Learn about the Legislative Branch meetings. View Page Apply for Funding! Find out how your StuOrg can be eligible for funding. View Page View the Governing Documents Find more about the Constitution, ByLaws and other documents Open Page About Us Projects & Initiatives Get Involved Funding Weekly Meetings Legislation StuGov Projects View the projects that we are proud of in the Student Government Open Page View the Directory Find more about the Student Government members View Directory Senate Meetings Learn about the Legislative Branch meetings. View Page Apply for Funding! Find out how your StuOrg can be eligible for funding. View Page View the Governing Documents Find more about the Constitution, ByLaws and other documents Open Page Meet Your Representatives Jacob Ludwig President Jaden Alrichs Vice President Emily Roberts Chief of Staff Edward Mahoney Speaker of the Senate Kit Clayburn Finance Director Andrew Brueck Vice Speaker Jacob Ludwig President Jaden Alrichs Vice President Emily Roberts Chief of Staff Edward Mahoney Speaker of the Senate Kit Clayburn Finance Director View Full Directory Upcoming Student Government Event April 2022 07Apr 6:00 pm - 7:00 pm DEI Committee Meeting Thursday EVENT DETAIL May 2022 31May 4:00 pm - 5:00 pm Rules Committee Meeting Tuesday, Student Government office EVENT DETAIL 31May 7:30 pm - 8:30 pm Public Relations Committee Meeting Tuesday, Student Government office EVENT DETAIL No event found! View All Events Recent News Fireside Chat – Financial Literacy Fireside Chat – Financial Literacy Want access to more resources on financial literacy? Follow this link: https://www.studentwellness.iastate.e… Read More » Julia Campbell April 12, 2022 Election Commissioner Applications Open Election Commisioner Understand and regulate election rules Investigate potential election violations Recommend changes to law to improve elections Select other members of leadership within election commission Read More » Alex Cecil April 7, 2022 2022 Election Results Attached below are the preliminary election results. The Election Commission will meet on Monday, March 7th to conduct their certification. The first document is a Read More » Ross Opie March 5, 2022 Election Commission Official Statement on Senate Bill 2021-3-001 Y Below is Election Commission’s Official Statement on Senate Bill 2021-3-001 Y. Feel free to email me rossopie@iastate.edu with any questions or concerns. Read More » Ross Opie January 26, 2022 Apply to Election Commission Today Apply to Become a Part of the Election Commission Today Want to become a part of the Election Commission? Please fill out the Google Form Read More » Ross Opie January 12, 2022 Fireside Chat – Health and Wellness Fireside Chat – Health and Wellness Read More » Julia Campbell December 17, 2021 POSITION OPENING: Director of Diversity and Inclusion Application Open Until November 22nd Apply for the Position of Director of Diversity and Inclusion by November 22nd Interested in becoming the next Director of Diversity and Inclusion? Please apply Read More » Julia Campbell November 19, 2021 Complete the Climate Action Plan Target Setting Survey to Share Your Input with the City of Ames! The City of Ames is creating a Climate Action Plan, and the City needs your help to decide what our emissions reductions goals should be! Read More » Elizabeth Smith November 17, 2021 Show More More Information The Student Government office is located at 1580H West Student Office Space Memorial Union Ames, IA 50011 stugov@iastate.edu Contact Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Student Government Student Government 1580H West Student Office Space Memorial Union Ames, IA 50011 stugov@iastate.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...