Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Chinese (Traditional) Spanish Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Walks M. Victor and Frances Leventritt Shrub and Vine Garden in autumn. Workmen constructing the South Street Gate area of the Arboretum photographed in 1889. A Walk Through Time, Part 1 Walk with Landscape Architect Rosetta S. Elkin and Arboretum Archivist Lisa E. Pearson. 20 mins An easy walk with several hills, accessible for mobility impaired visitors .25 miles Japanese black pines <(Pinus thunbergii) on an island in the bay of Shiogama, Japan. Photograph by John Jack, August 1905. A Walk Through Time, Part 2 Walk with Landscape Architect Rosetta S. Elkin and Arboretum Archivist Lisa E. Pearson. 30 mins An easy walk with a hill, accessible for mobility impaired visitors. .25 miles M. Victor and Frances Leventritt Shrub and Vine Garden in autumn. Introductory Tour This half-mile Introductory Tour features stories about the Arboretum’s history, mission, and research endeavors. If you’re at the Arboretum, click here to take a version of this tour with Expeditions, our mobile web app. 40 mins Easy 0.5 miles Dove tree (Davidia involucrata). Explorers Garden Tour This quarter-mile tour through the Explorers Garden features stories from the Arboretum’s century and a half of collecting plants around the world. If you’re at the Arboretum, click here to take a version of this tour with Expeditions, our mobile web app. 45 mins Easy .25 miles Michael Dosmann Keeper's Tour Take a walk with Michael Dosmann, the Keeper of the Arboretum’s living collections. Take this tour online or while visiting the Arboretum in person. 90 mins Medium 1.5 miles M. Victor and Frances Leventritt Shrub and Vine Garden in autumn. Director's Tour Experience the Arnold Arboretum’s world-class living collections from Director Ned Friedman’s perspective. Take this tour online or while visiting the Arboretum in person. 120 mins Medium 2.5 miles Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up