Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search Academics Admissions Research Key Research Areas Innovation & Entrepreneurship Highlighted Units & Facilities Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics University of Notre Dame Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics Home Contact Search Menu Undergraduate Research Home › Research › Undergraduate Research “Students are at the front and center of our vision for Notre Dame Research.” —Robert J. Bernhard, Vice President for Research Employer expectations, along with wider recognition of the value of research experience, have led to steady growth in the number of undergraduates engaged in research. Today, more than one-third of all Notre Dame undergraduates participate in original research with a faculty mentor - a number that continues to rise. The University encourages all undergraduates to participate in extracurricular scholarly engagement in order to enhance their educational experience and to begin to have an impact on the world as an undergraduate. Scholarly engagement can take various forms—service learning, internships, cultural and linguistic immersion, and undergraduate research. The Flatley Center for Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement (CUSE) is a University center that serves as an advising hub for undergraduates who want to learn more about getting started in research, securing funding for research, and presenting and publishing research. CUSE offers workshops, online resources, and one-on-one advising meetings, all designed to help undergraduates discern their scholarly interests and make a plan for how to engage with them beyond the curriculum in partnership with faculty members and the numerous centers and institutes that support undergraduate scholarly engagement at Notre Dame. In the 2016-17 academic year, nearly $2 million was distributed to undergraduates to support research activities. And while all undergraduates will typically encounter research in the course of their studies, more than one-third of undergraduates conduct extracurricular research before they graduate. More Undergraduate Research Minding the (Housing) Gap Notre Dame partners with the city of South Bend to encourage affordable infill development on vacant lots across the city Read story angle right Key Research Areas Innovation & Entrepreneurship Highlighted Units & Facilities Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Quick Links Bookstore Employment Tour InsideND Academic Calendar University of Notre Dame Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA 41.703234 -86.238985 Phone: (574) 631-5000 Contact Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Emergency Closed Captioning Notice of Non-Discrimination Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit