Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home About The Innovation Imperative FAQ Funding opportunities Roundtable Contacts Programs Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship Global Innovation Exchange Colleges and schools UW Medicine Incubators and accelerators Internships and fellowships Find a mentor Classes and clubs Events Upcoming events Autumn Quarter Winter Quarter Spring Quarter Ongoing events Spaces Makerspaces CoMotion Labs GIX Prototyping Labs Other facilities Startups Startup portfolio Success stories Investment and licensing opportunities Work with UW Startup Portfolio In the last five years, CoMotion helped to facilitate 1,950 licenses and 73 UW spinoffs which have gone on to raise over $4.3B in non-dilutive and dilutive funding. Today, there are 103 active UW spinoffs in the state of Washington with 4,081 employees. In this same period, more than 450 startups have been launched by current undergraduate, graduate students and alumni through the Buerk Center. Those ventures, large and small, have raised more than $85 million dollars. In addition, more than 88% of the ventures that received funding through the Jones + Foster Accelerator over the past ten years remain in business today. Success stories Startup success takes many forms – from standalone UW spinoffs and startups, to acquisitions of UW projects or startups by leading companies, to licensing of UW IP to industry leaders for further development. Read about a few of our success stories below. Proprio employees, led by CEO Gabriel Jones, pose for a team photo. (Proprio photo) Proprio A revolutionary platform built to harness the power of machine learning and computer vision to improve surgical navigation. Co-founded by Josh Smith, PhD (Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering, Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering); Sam Browd, MD, PhD (Professor of Neurological Surgery, Director of Seattle Children’s Hydrocephalus Program); James Youngquist (CSE PhD student, now Head of R&D, Proprio); Ken Denman (Co-Founder & Chairman of the Board, Proprio, Board member, UW Foundation); and Gabriel Jones (CEO, Proprio, UW Foster MBA grad) Read story Ingrid Swanson Pultz, Ph.D., of the Institute for Protein Design (IPD) co-founded PvP Biologics with David Baker, Ph.D., director of IPD, and Justin Siegel, Ph.D. ’11 (biochemistry). PvP Biologics A UW spinout that developed an oral enzyme for the treatment of celiac disease which affects an estimated 2.4 million Americans. It was acquired by Takeda in 2020. Read story A-Alpha Bio was founded by University of Washington Bioengineering PhD graduates David Younger (standing) and Randolph Lopez. (A-Alpha Bio Photo). A-Alpha Bio A-Alpha Bio is focused on accelerating drug development with synthetic biology and next-generation sequencing. They are disrupting the way that pharmaceutical companies discover, optimize, and characterize drugs. Read story Membrion CEO Greg Newbloom (Ph.D., Chemical Engineering) participating in GeekWire's Elevator Pitch (Photo by Dan DeLong) Membrion Membrion makes membranes that are critical components in machines that turn some types of salty water into fresh water. Membrion says its membranes lower the cost of filtering so-called “brackish water” by approximately 30 percent, making a previously un-affordable process more doable. Read story Nanodropper teammates, from left to right: Mackenzie Andrews (UW Bioengineering), Jennifer Steger and Allisa Song. Not pictured: Elias Baker. (Photo by Matt Hagen / UW Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship) Nanodropper To make eye medications last longer and help consumers save money, UW students developed Nanodropper, a device that reduces the size of unnecessarily big eye droplets. Read story Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering students Nikolas Ioannou and Sage Khanuja are the teenagers behind Spira, which debuted the text-based service. (Photo courtesy of Sage Khanuja) Spira Two University of Washington students released a SMS COVID-19 tracker and have plans for a coronavirus screening tool. Users will receive daily coronavirus updates, including information on deaths, cases, recoveries, and even reminders for hand washing and staying home. Read story More success stories Investment and licensing opportunities There are many ways to get involved as an investor. Visit CoMotion's website to learn how your involvement can help move innovations to impact. AboutProgramsClasses/ClubsEventsSpacesStartupsWork with UW University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA