Skip to Content Area Visitors Students K–12 Members Contact Us Get eNews Join Us Birds, Cornell Lab of Ornithology About Mission & Values Our Work People Your Impact Visit Us Jobs News Room Annual Report Get Involved Find Your Project eBird Citizen Science Lifelong Learning 10 Ways to Help Birds Donate Support Our Cause Monthly Giving Join All About Birds Bird Guide Birds of the World Merlin Bird ID App eBird Explore Macaulay Library Bird Academy Bird Cams Living Bird FAQs Search We believe in the power of nature to ignite discovery and inspire action Join us on a lifelong journey to enjoy, understand, and protect birds and the natural world. Nashville Warbler by Linda Petersen Show Transcript [upbeat music] What bird is that? How much do they eat? Why are they so colorful? What's that bird doing? Curiosity gives rise to questions. Where do migratory birds go? What do birds tell us about our changing world? How can I help? Will they be here when I grow up? We are dedicated to finding answers together. Revealing how nature works. Linking a global community. Opening doors to the natural world. Transforming science into action. We are working together...to better understand our connections...to life on earth. [LOGO] The Cornell Lab of Ornithology, join us. [music resolves] End of Transcript Visitor Center Hours Trails open dawn to dusk Plan Your Visit Dive Into Bird ID and Info All About Birds Explore and Contribute eBird Science & Innovation We reveal how nature works We bring together scientists, students, and people from all walks of life in the quest to generate new knowledge and conserve our shared natural world. You can help. eBird Status and Trend models are enabling new ways of viewing birds across continental scales. More About Science What you can do Lifelong Learning and Citizen Science Seven Simple Actions to Help Birds NestWatchFind and monitor nests to help track success in the family lives of birds Bird AcademyTake an online course to transform your understanding of birds Bird CamsWatch wild birds up close and live from around the world MerlinWhat’s that bird? Merlin Bird ID helps you find out Project FeederWatchEnjoy birds at your feeder and share your observations eBirdTrack your sightings, contribute to new maps and insights Celebrate Urban BirdsConnect with birds in your community with science, art, & events Explore sights and sounds of animals from around the world K–12 EducationTeach about birds and inquiry with our activities and curricula Student ResourcesMerge your passion for birds with studies in any field Young Birders NetworkConnect with other young birders Begin your journey here. Choose a project to match your interests. Education We open doors to the natural world Help us foster inquiry and learning, starting with the earliest ages and lasting a lifetime. We’re dedicated to inspiring new science and conservation leaders. Our K-12 program partners with educators in Central America to connect kids with birds. Transcript More About Education Conservation We transform science into action In service to the natural world, we work with communities around the globe to inspire and inform conservation. Your support helps us find solutions for a sustainable planet alive with the beauty of birds–where together humans and wildlife can thrive. See Your Impact How We Use Sound to Help Protect Elephants from Poaching How Can a Great Cup of Coffee Support Birds, Farmers, and Local Communities? Creating a New Chapter of Hope for One of the World’s Most Endangered Eagles Make a Difference Let’s work together to protect birds and habitats Join as a Member Get the beautiful Living Bird magazine right in your mailbox Living Bird Latest stories from our award-winning magazine Subscribe Subscribe A Deep Dive Into The Oriole Genome Tackles The Mystery Of Hybridization Dancers Of Spring: Displaying Grouse Are A Must-See Spectacle Bringing Back Prey-go-neesh, the California Condor, to My Tribe’s Homeland Macaulay Library Browse More Photos Photo credits: Cliff Swallow by Gavin McKinnon/Macaulay Library; Golden-fronted Woodpecker by Marcy Barbosa/BirdSpotter; Tree Swallow by Marie Read; Calliope Hummingbird by Marya Moosman/Macaulay Library; Cornell Botanical Gardens by Justin Muir; Gunnison Sage-Grouse by Gerrit Vyn. Don't miss a thing! Join our email list About Mission Programs People Administrative Board Your Impact Visit Us Careers Corporate Sponsors News Room Citizen Science eBird Project Feederwatch Celebrate Urban Birds NestWatch Great Backyard Bird Count Lifelong Learning Bird Academy K–12 Education Young Birders Network Study at Cornell Events Bird Info & Tools All About Birds Merlin Bird ID App eBird Explore Macaulay Library FAQs Publications Living Bird Magazine Birds of the World State of the Birds Scientific Publications Clements Checklist Books for All Ages Cornell Lab Annual Report 2021 Quick Finders Members Visitors Citizen-Science Participants K–12 Educators Students Postdoctoral Program Shop for Our Cause Donate Support Our Cause Monthly Giving Join Golden-wing Society Chairman’s Council Planned Giving Contact Us Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Assistance Privacy Policy Terms of use © 2022 Cornell University Cancel × Search this website Bird ID help, Bird Guide All About Birds Find birds near you eBird Quick Links Visit Us Staff Directory Members Students Close this module Close this module Experience the Joy of Birdwatching online course for yourself, and we'll give you one free to send to a friend! Just purchase the course for yourself, then look for an email from us with instructions to redeem your free gift course. Learn More