Skip to main content Visit Hours/Map Parking/Accessibility Docent Tours Contact Exhibitions & Publications Events Collection Search the Collection Interactive Spotlights Learn McMullen From Home Docent Tours Student Ambassadors the Terrace University/Academics Pre-K–12 About Director’s Welcome Events Endowments Contact Press Room Join Learn Docent Tours Free docent tours of the McMullen’s current exhibition take place every Sunday at 2:00 pm. If you would like a separate, private tour for yourself or a group, please contact Rachel Chamberlain at least two weeks in advance. Student Ambassadors Applications to become a paid 2022–23 McMullen Student Ambassador are now open through Sunday, April 3, 2022. Please follow the link below to complete an application. All majors are encouraged to apply. Applicants must be undergraduate students enrolled at Boston College in fall 2022. Link: Student Ambassador Application Form Student Ambassadors work five to ten hours a week at $14.25 an hour collaborating on student programs and exhibition openings, acting as museum greeters, selling catalogues, contributing to the McMullen’s social media platforms, implementing new digital initiatives, creating virtual walkthroughs and podcasts, and assisting with research on temporary exhibitions and the Museum’s permanent collection. Student Ambassadors explore first-hand museum best practices while gaining experience in collections management, digital humanities, museum programming, and marketing. Interested in learning more about the program? The hiring manager, Rachel Chamberlain, and a couple of our current Student Ambassadors will hold two virtual information sessions on Monday, March 14 at 4:00 pm (register here) and Friday, March 25 at 4:00 pm (register here). We will go over Ambassador responsibilities and answer any questions you may have about the job or the application process. The McMullen Museum recognizes the essential contribution a diverse community of students, faculty, and staff makes to the advancement of its goals and ideals in an atmosphere of respect for one another and for the Museum’s mission. Accordingly, the McMullen Museum commits itself to maintaining a welcoming environment for all people and extends its welcome in particular to those who may be vulnerable to discrimination on the basis of their race, color, national origin, sex, religion, disability, age, marital or parental status, gender identity, sexual orientation, military status, or other legally protected status. For further information on the Student Ambassador program, please contact Rachel Chamberlain. McMullen Graduate Assistant This position provides a nine-month employment opportunity for a graduate student interested in marketing and hands-on experience with the Museum’s programming and outreach initiatives. McMullen Museum marketing and programming aims to engage visitors of all ages to explore the Museum’s exhibitions and permanent collection. All disciplines are encouraged to apply. Graduate Assistants receive a monthly stipend of $1200 per month for 15 hours a week. Applications to work as a McMullen Graduate Assistant for the 2022–2023 academic year are due April 24, 2022. Please click on the following link for more information. McMullen Graduate Assistant Application Information the Terrace The Terrace is a digital publication produced by the McMullen Student Ambassadors. Alongside information on the Student Ambassadors and updates on their current committee projects, visitors can find episodes of the McMullen podcast, “Art in Focus,” an archive of lecture recordings, research on the McMullen permanent collection, as well as articles, interviews, digital resources, Boston spotlights, and more, all organized and produced by the Ambassadors in collaboration with McMullen staff. University/Academics The McMullen Museum’s temporary exhibitions provide a resource to all higher education instructors, students, and researchers. In addition to the Museum’s Sunday afternoon docent tours, faculty may schedule self-guided tours for their classes or request specialized guided tours, discussion sections, or workshops to be led by McMullen staff or docents. To schedule a tour or request further information, please contact Rachel Chamberlain at least three weeks in advance. Pre-K–12 The McMullen Museum welcomes children and school groups of all ages to explore its rotating exhibitions and develop connections with the works on display. Dedicated to helping students develop critical visual and cognitive thinking skills through visual thinking strategies (VTS), the McMullen engages students in discussions on art, asking them to draw their own conclusions based on the visual evidence presented. School Visits The Manager of Education, Outreach & Digital Resources, Rachel Chamberlain, is available to help design individualized visits tailored to class curricula. To schedule a school group visit, please contact her at least three weeks in advance. The Museum cannot accommodate student groups for lunch. When weather permits, students and chaperones are welcome to eat outside on the terrace or on the lawn in front of the museum. School groups are also welcome at the many dining halls on campus. Information on dining services may be found at the Boston College Dining Services website. Buses may stop in front of the museum for drop off and pick up and may park in any of the visiting bus spaces in the Theology and Ministry Library parking lot. Information on parking/accessibility may be found at the University’s Department of Transportation & Parking website. McMullen Museum of Art, Boston College, 2101 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, MA 02135 Postal address: 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617.552.8587 • artmuseum@bc.edu • © 2022 the McMullen Museum of Art and the Trustees of Boston College