Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University Robert J. & Nancy D.Carney Institute for Brain Science Search Brown University Home Research Research Projects Where Brain Science Happens BRAINSTORM Program Centers & Core Facilities Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Computational Brain Science COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Center for Translational Neuroscience Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function Research Projects Research Cores Behavior and Neuroimaging Core Design and Analysis Core MRI Research Facility Carney Human Testing Space The Bioluminescence Hub COVID-19 Resuming Research Plan Training Undergraduate Students Concentrations Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Give To Carney Give To Carney Home Research Training People News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources About Partner With Us Search Carney Institute for Brain Science BrainExPo Brain Science External Postdoc Seminar Series The Carney Institute's Brain Science External Postdoc Seminar Series (BrainExPo) showcases the work of advanced postdoctoral scholars from around the world. The goal of this series is to: 1) provide a platform for early-career scientists to share their research and network with Carney's brain science community, and 2) provide an opportunity for the institute's community of faculty members, postdoctoral researchers, and graduate and undergraduate students to hear about new innovative research. Photo by Barnea Lab/Brown University The 2021-22 BrainExpo seminar series will begin in January 2022. Below is the lineup of speakers. Date Speaker Title January 31, 2022 Carl Schoonover and Andrew Fink, Columbia University Learning and forgetting in primary olfactory cortex February 28, 2022 Megha Sehgal, University of California, Los Angeles Co-allocation to overlapping dendritic branches in retrosplenial cortex integrates memories across time March 28, 2022 Danique Jeurissen, Columbia University Parietal Cortex: Useless or flexible? Deficits in decision-making after cortical inactivation dissipate on two time scales April 25, 2022 Julieta Lischinsky, New York University Hardwired to attack? Understanding the developmental and cellular mechanisms for innate social behaviors in the medial amygdala May 23, 2022 Micaela Chan, The University of Texas at Dallas Patterns of functional brain network in healthy and unhealthy aging June 27, 2022 Emilia Favuzzi, Harvard Medical School & Broad Institute of Harvard University and MIT During brain wiring, specialized microglia are dedicated to remodeling distinct synapse types During their visit to Brown, selected speakers will present their research to Carney’s brain science community, and they will have the opportunity to meet with faculty members and postdoctoral researchers. We encourage applications from postdoctoral researchers in any field of brain science. Invited speakers will be chosen to reflect the diversity of research conducted at Brown. We aim to attract a diverse group of scientists, and we especially welcome applications from women and people from historically underrepresented groups. For more information, email the selection committee. Photo by Plavicki Lab/Brown University Speaker selection committee: Keeley Baker, postdoctoral research associate in the Fleischmann Lab Katherine Conen, postdoctoral research associate in the Desrochers Lab Sucheta Chakravarty, postdoctoral research fellow in the Oh Lab E. Javier López Soto, postdoctoral research associate in the Lipscombe Lab Rajan Thakur, postdoctoral research associate in the O'Connor-Giles Lab Adrian Thompson, postdoctoral research associate in the Aizenman Lab Debbie Yee, postdoctoral research fellow in the Shenhav Lab BrainExPo faculty advisors include: Kate O'Connor-Giles, Provost's Associate Professor of Brain Science Jessica Plavicki, Manning Assistant Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Alexander Fleischmann, Provost's Associate Professor of Brain Science Previous BrainExPo speakers Speaker Date Title Sergey D. Stavisky January 25, 2021 Intracortical brain-computer interfaces: from fundamental science and engineering to restoring speech, reach and grasp Allan-Hermann Pool February 22, 2021 Mapping and re-engineering neural circuits mediating biological motivations Anita Devineni March 29, 2021 Neural processing for flexible behavior in the Drosophila taste system Lisa Scheunemann April 26, 2021 Context-dependent Memory Suppression Seungwon (Sebastian) Choi May 24, 2021 Ascending somatosensory circuitry that shapes the perception of touch and pain Ashley Ingiosi June 28, 2021 Of sleep and stars: defining a role for astrocytes in sleep and sleep homeostasis Photo by O'Connor-Giles Lab/Brown University About the Carney Institute The Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science is committed to supporting research and facilitating collaborations in brain science across the Brown University community. The institute's mission is to promote discovery and innovation in brain science by supporting a diverse community of experimentalists, theorists, engineers, and clinical scientists. We do this by recruiting and retaining world-class faculty, creating an outstanding collaborative training environment, seeding innovative projects, supporting collaborative teams, and raising the visibility and reputation of Carney researchers. The Carney Institute supports research in four areas of excellence: neurobiology of cells and circuits; cognition and behavior; computational brain science; and neuroengineering and neurotechnology. News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Brown University Box 1901 164 Angell St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-7421 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top