Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School News Graduate School Skip to Navigation News Cadence Lee Recognized with an Outstanding Academic Accomplishment Award Each year, Brown University presents an award to a master’s student who demonstrates outstanding academic accomplishment. Past recipients have represented a wide-array of exceptional students, and this year is no different. Cadence Lee ’21 Sc.M., will be honored with the Brown Academic Accomplishment Award for her outstanding contributions during her time in the master of science in biotechnology (Sc.M.) program. Dr. Maheen Mausoof Adamson ‘22 Sc.M. Wins Professional Excellence Award The Brown University Master’s Award for Professional Excellence recognizes a Brown University master’s student whose outstanding contributions have influenced or contributed to the field or profession. This year’s recipient is Dr. Maheen Mausoof Adamson ’22 Sc.M., a graduate of the master’s in healthcare leadership program at the School of Professional Studies at Brown University. This award recognizes Adamson’s notable accomplishments during the master’s in healthcare leadership program, including her work on the Critical Challenge Project. Kevin Boyce Selected for the Master’s Award for Engaged Citizenship Service to the community, the nation and the world is embedded in the fabric of Brown University. That’s why each year, the institution honors a master’s student with the Master’s Award for Engaged Citizenship and Community Service. The 2022 awardee is Kevin Boyce ’22 MPA, a service minded, unapologetic justice oriented, and thoughtful student leader. He is being honored for his incredible commitment and dedication to creating a more inclusive community at Brown University, particularly for students of color. Astrophysicist Brian G. Keating ‘95 Sc.M., ’00 Ph.D. Selected for Horace Mann Medal The 2022 Horace Mann Medal is awarded to Brian G. Keating, the Chancellor’s Distinguished Professor of Physics at UC San Diego's Center for Astrophysics and Space Sciences. The Medal is awarded at Commencement to a Brown University Graduate School alum who has made significant contributions in their field. Join us on Saturday, May 28 at 12:30 pm at 85 Waterman Street for his forum presentation, Think Like Galileo Galilei: How to Remain Relevant for Half a Millennium. Thomas A. Lewis named Interim Dean of Graduate School Professor of Religious Studies Thomas A. Lewis, known to most as Tal, has been appointed the Interim Dean of Brown’s Graduate School, effective July 1, 2022. He currently serves as the Co-Deputy Dean and Associate Dean of Academic Affairs at the Graduate School, and will serve as Interim Dean for academic year 2022-23. Lewis will succeed Andrew Campbell, who will return to the faculty after completing his current term as Dean in June. In this role, Tal will be responsible for advancing the excellence of Brown's graduate programs, increasing support for our graduate students, and strengthening the broader structure for graduate education across the University. 1 of 1274 ›› Subscribe via RSS feed Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants