Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff Student guides Transfer student advising guide As a transfer students, navigating the UW can often feel overwhelming, especially during your first year. The transfer student advising guide is intended to help you identify meaningful activities, and prompt questions to ask yourself and your adviser during your first few quarters at UW. Transfer student guide Pre-enrollment Pre-enrollment activities Plan for admission to your intended major. Explore admission process on major department websites. Sign up for Transfer Advising and Orientation (A&O). See New Husky Admissions Website for things to do before enrolling. Ensure transcripts are submitted. Reflect on how you will use your remaining general education course requirements and electives to enhance your UW education. Plan for personal and academic adjustments to your new institution (i.e. moving closer to campus, working fewer hours, using study resources). Explore activities outside the classroom you would like to get started on or continue from your previous institution. If applicable, connect with DRS, VEBO, OSVL, OSFA, HFS. Questions to ask yourself What strengths do I bring from my previous academic and life experience to UW? Have I anticipated what my commute, job and academic schedule will look like? Questions to ask your adviser at Advising and Orientation How can I best prepare to make the most out of my first quarter? Given my academic goals, how should I plan and prioritize classes and other activities? I know I have limited time at the UW, but want to be as engaged as possible. What are some ways to do this once I arrive on campus? Quarter one Quarter one activities Have a plan and timeline to declare your major. If your intended major is capacity constrained, create a parallel plan. Learn about the UW Satisfactory Progress Policy and how it might impact you. Attend information sessions or visit/contact an adviser in your intended department(s). Connect with your assigned adviser and/or departmental adviser regularly. Attend the New Transfer Student Welcome sponsored by UAA and OMAD. Start exploring research and engagement opportunities available to you in your departments/colleges of interest. Attend the RSO Fair. Sign up for a Handshake account. Attend class and learn how to adjust your study habits to the UW. Connect with the Commuter and Transfer Commons. Questions to ask yourself What part of my academics am I enjoying the most? What am I finding most challenging? What is my plan to take care of myself emotionally and physically this year, while also balancing my academics? What new opportunities do I want to explore? What am I learning about myself and my interests during this transition to my new institution? Where will I find familiarity in a time of transition? How am I creating and forming community at UW? Questions to ask your adviser Is my course and major trajectory realistic and strategic? How will the satisfactory progress policy impact me, if at all? What are ways that I can achieve my goals, beyond just my major choice? How should I plan for studying abroad or other experiential learning opportunity? How should I think about incorporating it into my academic planning? Quarter two Quarter two activities Connect with faculty and advisers in your intended department(s). Begin to think about your plans for the summer. Do you plan to work? Take coursework? Volunteer? Consider applying for an on-campus job. Sign up to participate in the Undergraduate Research Symposium. Declare/apply to your major or work with your adviser on a pre-major extension plan. Use what you learned Autumn quarter to adjust study and time management approaches. Explore new student organizations related to your major and/or career goals. Questions to ask yourself What did I enjoy at my previous institution that I want to continue at UW? How do my interests inside the classroom relate to activities I might want to be involved in outside the classroom? What am I doing well, to maintain my physical, mental, and social well being? What adjustments do I want to make to help me to feel my best? What adjustments do I need to make in my study strategies? Consult peers with similar interests to hear about their experiences. Questions to ask your adviser Beyond my major related courses, what are the options for how I can use my remaining credits? What are the best ways to benefit from working with advisers and faculty in academic departments? What are options for co-curricular involvement? How can I advance the exploration of my career interests? I was not admitted to my first choice major, how might I achieve my goals in a different major? Quarter three Quarter three activities Solidify your plan for summer and consider options such as working, participating in research, or studying abroad. Search Handshake for on and off campus summer job and internship opportunities and visit the Career and Internship Center to get your resume and cover letter reviewed. Attend the Job and Internship Fair. Attend and/or volunteer for the Undergraduate Research Symposium and/or meet with an adviser in the Undergraduate Research Program. Apply to be matched with Alumni through the Huskies@ Work Program to learn more about their career journeys and workplaces. Explore opportunities to serve as a mentor. Get involved in ASUW. Explore new student organizations related to your major and/or career goals. Questions to ask yourself What post-graduation plans do I have that require application preparation, standardized tests, etc. What kinds of activities can I be involved in related to my academic interests? What other courses or experiences do I want to have at UW? Are there minors I may want to pursue? Questions to ask your adviser How can I explore some of my interests through coursework that is outside of my major? What academic activities can I get involved in outside the classroom that will enrich my education? What factors should I consider when planning my summer activities? Questions for departmental advisers What scholarships exist within my major department that I can be considered for? Based on my interests, are there any special course offerings you suggest that I take next year, or professors to take classes with? How can I get involved in research within the department? What opportunities for leadership or mentorship are available within the major? Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA