Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Admissions Assistantships Awards Presentations The M.S. program The Ph.D. program Program InformationPh.D Graduates Courses & Syllabi Graduate Exams Graduate Handbook Memphis Graduate Seminar Take Action Student FAQ Cantor Sect Contact Us Home Math Sciences Graduate Graduate Student Awards Graduate Student Awards The Dr. Ralph Faudree Award in Mathematics: As officially recorded by the University of Memphis, the family of Ralph Faudree has established an award for PhD students in mathematics. Acknowledged internationally as an outstanding mathematician, Dr. Faudree's interest in and promotion of higher education helped to guide the University of Memphis toward increased standards for academic excellence. Ralph was the first in his family to graduate from college and the first to earn a doctoral degree. Life as a professor of mathematics enabled him to travel the world, meet and work with great mathematicians, and nurture upcoming students at all levels. Teaching and research brought him enormous joy, and both were central to what made his many years of service at the U of M so rewarding. This award was established to encourage others in pursuit of similar goals. Accordingly, the Department of Mathematical Sciences has established the Dr. Ralph Faudree Award, to be given annually to up to two PhD students in Mathematics who have demonstrated excellent progress toward achieving the doctoral degree. It consists of a monetary award of $300 and a certificate of recognition. Eligibility requirements include having passed the Qualifying PhD Exam and a commendable teaching record. Each year, nominees will be invited to give a presentation of their research during Mathematics Research Day. The final decision is made by a jury of department-appointed faculty members. The Department of Mathematical Sciences is very grateful to Pat Faudree for her generous gift aimed at instilling in the new generation of PhD students in Mathematics at the University of Memphis those very same goals of excellence in research and teaching that defined the professional life of Dr. Ralph Faudree. We hope this award will continue, through the contribution of additional donations, for many, many years to come. RECIPIENTS : Kamil Popielarz [2015], Ali Dogan [2015], Yury Sokolov [2016], Stephen Smith [2017], Buddjhika Priyasad [2017], Richard Snyder [2018], Sutthirut Charoenphon [2018], Rebekah Herman [2019], Mariusz Żyluk [2019], Stephen Guffey [2020], Marcelo Bongarti [2020] Rasika Mahawattege [2021], Monika [2021], Sana Kazemi[2022], Madhumita Roy[2022]. More details are given below. The Dr. Cecil Rousseau Award in Mathematics: This award, in memory of Dr. Cecil C. Rousseau, was established by his former colleagues and friends. Cecil, who passed away on April 10, 2020, left a long and rich legacy to the Department of Mathematics, University of Memphis. He was a Professor of Mathematics in the Department for almost 50 years. He was a pioneer who was instrumental in establishing research agenda and reputation for the Department and the University. In 2012 he received the Paul Erdős Award from the World Federation of National Mathematics Competitions. His excellence in research was one of the main reasons why Paul Erdős visited the University of Memphis on a regular basis for numerous years. He was one of the very few mathematicians whose Erdős and Ulam numbers were 1. Cecil - a physicist by formal training - was also a problem solver. He was a Coach of the US Mathematics Olympiad Team and a Managing Editor for the Problem Section of the SIAM Review. Cecil's love and enthusiasm for mathematics was boundless. He loved interactions with his students and over the years he provided many of them with special training going well beyond the call of teaching duties. He was a great friend, a scholar, a resourceful and multi-talented person. The award is given to a promising doctoral student who demonstrated excellent progress toward achieving the doctoral degree, passed the Qualifying PhD Exam and has an excellent teaching record. Nominees will be invited to give a presentation of their research during Mathematics Research Day. The final decision is made by a jury of department-appointed faculty members. The award consists of a monetary award of $300 and a certificate of recognition. RECIPIENTS : Priyadashi Dey [2020]. More details are given below. The Dr. S. P. Wong Award In Statistics: This award, in memory of Dr. S.P. Wong, is presented each year to up to four graduate students in Statistics . The Dr SP Wong Award in Statistics was established by former students, colleagues and friends of Dr. Wong. Dr. S.P. Wong was a Professor of Statistics in the Department of Mathematical Sciences, University of Memphis for 45 years-until his death in 2017. His research and scholarship has been highly recognized, not only within the field of statistics but also in medical sciences. He had a sizable record of very influential publications. In particular, his research publications with the medical community have had great impact and is highly cited. One of his papers received over 3,760 citations. He was known as a generous, loving and optimistic person. Dr. Wong spent a life dedicated to helping and guiding people, in particular many students, around him. He directed numerous M.S. and PhD. theses. His research and teaching affected many lives during his tenure at the University of Memphis. Many of his students went on to pursue successful professional careers. Donations to the award fund are welcome and can be made at the online donation website. RECIPIENTS From the DMS : Lija Wang [2018], Jeff Richardson [2018], Yunusa Olufadi [2018], Luhang Han [2018], John Appiah Kubi [2019], Robert Aymett [2019] Jonathan McCurdy [2019] Kenneth Passiah [2019], John Appiah kubi [2020], Jonathan McCurdy [2020]. More details are given below. The Dr. Ralph Faudree Award Recipients Spring 2022 Congratulations to Sana Kazemi recipient of the Dr. Ralph Faudree Award. Ms. Kazemi gave the prenentation Properties of Special Classes of Sequence Spaces. Congratulations to Madhumita Roy recipient of the Dr. Ralph Faudree Award. Ms. Roy gave the prenentation Global attractors for a nonlinear boundary damped wave equation with critical exponents. Spring 2021 Congratulations to Monika, recipient of the Dr. Ralph Faudree Award. Ms. Monika gave the presentation Numerical Index. Congratulations to Rasika Mahawattege, recipient of the Dr. Ralph Faudree Award. Mr. Mahawetteg gave the presentation Fluid-Structure interaction with visco-elastic (Kelvin-Voigt)-damping: analyticity, spectral properties, uniform stabilization. Spring 2020 Congratulations to Marcelo Bongarti , recipient of the Dr. Ralph Faudree Award. Mr. Bongarti gave the presentation: The Singular Thermal Relaxation Limit for the MGT Equation. Congratulations to Stephen Guffey, recipient of the Dr. Ralph Faudree Award. Mr. Guffey gave the presentation: Local Null Controllability for a Chemotaxis System of a Bacterial Infection in a Chronic Wound. Spring 2019 Congratulations to Mariusz Zyluk, recipient of the Dr. Ralph Faudree Award. Mr. Zyluk gave the presentation: Boundedness of Maximal Operator in Musielak-Orlicz spaces and some related problems. Congratulations to Rebekah Herrman, recipient of the Dr. Ralph Faudree Award. Ms. Herrman gave the presentation: Uniform Bounds for Non-Negativity of the Diffusion Game. Spring 2018 Congratulations to Sutthirut Charoenphon, recipient of the Dr. Ralph Faudree Award. Ms. Charoenphon gave the presentation: Vanishing Relaxation Time Dynamics of the Jordan Moore-Gibson-Thompson (JMGT) Equation arising in High Frequency Ultrasound (HFU). Congratulations to Richard Snyder, recipient of the Dr. Ralph Faudree Award. Mr. Snyder gave a presentation investigating Highly Linked Tournaments with Large Minimum out-Degree. Spring 2017 Congratulations to Buddhika Priyasad, recipient of the Dr. Ralph Faudree Award. Mr. Priyasad gave the presentation Stabilizing the Turbulence of Navier-Stokes Equations in Besov and Lp-based Sobolev Spaces. Congratulations to Stephen Smith, recipient of the Dr. Ralph Faudree Award. Mr. Smith gave a presentation: Investigating Zero Forcing in Graphs. Spring 2016 Congratulations to Yury Sokolov, recipient of the 2015-2016 Dr. Ralph Faudree Award. During Mathematics Research Day, Dr. Sokolov gave a presentation entitled Diameter of a Random Graph. Also, Yury's PhD dissertation won this year's prestigious Morton Dissertation Award. Spring 2015 Congratulations to Ali Dogan, recipient of the inaugural Dr. Ralph Faudree Award. Ali has been an excellent calculus instructor, as well as assisting in the Math Learning Center. Mr. Dogan gave a presentation from graph theory, On the Edge Spectrum of Saturation Number for Paths and Stars. Congratulations to Kamil Popielarz, recipient of the inaugural Dr. Ralph Faudree Award. Kamil has been a stalwart in the Math Learning Center, helping our undergraduates get through their courses. Mr. Popielarz gave a presentation investigating the question, How many triangles can a graph have? The Dr. Cecil Rousseau Award Recipients Spring 2020 Congratulations to Priyadarshi Dey, recipient of the 2020 Dr. Cecil Rousseau Award. Mr. Priyadarshi gave the presentation: Hermitian projections on some Operator space. The Dr. S.P. Wong Award in Statistics Spring 2022 Best student in SAS Programming Class (MATH 4607-6607): Dylan Schwab Best student in R Programming class (MATH 7607): Md Kaisar Ahmed Spring 2020 Jonathan McCurdy- Winner of Best R Presentation: "R Implementation of Gibb's Sampling and other MCMC Methods". John Appiah Kubi – Winner of Best Presentation on Bayesian statistics: "Bayesian Hierarchical Model Estimation of Drug Trial Snapshots". Yilun Sun – Winner of Best SAS Presentation: "Why Learn SAS: A Biostatistician's Perspectiver". Mahbubul Hasan – Winner of Best Presentation on Natural Language Processing: What Makes YouTube Videos go Viral? Emotional Triggers and Shopper's Engagement in Viral Advertising. Kevin Russell – Winner of Best Presentation on Analyzing Big Data: Estimating Individual Learner Differences via Online Stochastic Gradient Descent in Intelligent Tutoring Systems. Spring 2019 Winner of the Best Use of Simulation Kenneth Pasiah, Department of Mathematical Sciences. Title: Recent developments in pseudo random number generators (PRNGs) for computer simulations and security applications Winners of the Best Presentation in Application Winner of the Best Use of Simulation Malle Carrasco-Harris, Biology Department. Title: Exploring an alternative in habitat analysis: Resource utilization functions Winner of the Best Use of Simulation Helen Long, Communication Sciences. Title: Using GEEs to evaluate the longitudinal vocal development in infants at risk for cerebral palsy In addition, three students were awarded the Dr. Wong Award in SAS. Winner of the Dr. Wong Award in SAS, undergraduate Jonathan McCurdy, Department of Mathematical Sciences. Winner of the Dr. Wong Award in SAS, graduate Robert Aymett, Department of Mathematical Sciences. John Appiah-Kubi, Department of Mathematical Sciences. Spring 2018 Winner of the Best Bayesian Application to Big Data Luhang Han, Department of Mathematical Sciences. Title: Identifying and clustering stable and dynamic CpG sites via Bayesian Analysis Winner of the Best Use of Simulation Yunusa Olufadi, Department of Mathematical Sciences. Title: On a new statistical procedure to investigate epigenetic dose-response relationship Winner of the Best Presentation in Big Data Visualization Seyed Mohammad Hadi Hosseini, Bioinformatics Department. Title: ggbio visualization toolkits for genomics data Winner of the Best Presentation in Application Prabin Shrestha, Biology Department. Title: Drug re-discovery: an application of R-programming In addition, two students were awarded the Dr. Wong Award in SAS. Winner of the Dr. Wong Award in SAS, undergraduate Jeff Richardson, Department of Mathematical Sciences. Winner of the Dr. Wong Award in SAS, graduate Lijia Wang, Department of Mathematical Sciences. Outstanding Graduate Assistant Teaching Award Congratulations to Jon McCurdy, receipient of the 2022 Department of Mathematical Sciences Outstanding Graduate Assistant Teaching Award. Congratulations to Priyadarshi Dey, recipient of the 2021 Department of Mathematical Sciences Outstanding Graduate Assistant Teaching Award. Congratulations to Monika, recipient of the 2020 Department of Mathematical Sciences Outstanding Graduate Assistant Teaching Award. Congratulations to Stephen Guffey, recipient of the 2019 Department of Mathematical Sciences Outstanding Graduate Assistant Teaching Award. Congratulations to Holly Renaud, recipient of the 2018 Department of Mathematical Sciences Outstanding Graduate Assistant Teaching Award. Congratulations to Sutthirut Charoenphon, recipient of the 2017 Department of Mathematical Sciences Outstanding Graduate Assistant Teaching Award. Congratulations to Diego Calle-Cadavid, recipient of the 2016 Department of Mathematical Sciences Outstanding Graduate Assistant Teaching Award. Congratulations to Ali Dogan, recipient of the 2015 Department of Mathematical Sciences Outstanding Graduate Assistant Teaching Award. RECIPIENTS: Priyadarshi Dey | Monika | Stephen Guffey | Holly Renaud | Sutthirut Charoenphon | Diego Calle-Cadavid | Ali Dogan Other Awards Congratulations to Sovanial Mondal: the first-place winner in the 33nd Annual Student Research Forum for the Math and Computer Sciences category. The judges found this research on Grid method for averages. Congratulations to Madhumita Roy: the second-place winner in the 33nd Annual Student Research Forum for the Math and Computer Sciences category. The judges found this research on Global attractors for a nonlinear boundary damped wave equation with critical exponents. Rasika Mahawattege was awarded a highly competitive NSF-funded MSGI 2021 Summer Internship to work on a research project under the mentorship of Dr. James Nutaro, Oak Ridge National Lab, TN. The project was entitled: "Quantized state simulation of continuous systems". The goal was to obtain higher order quantized state simulation methods for ordinary differential equations. A novel second order method was introduced and proved theoretically by connecting to quantized time simulation. Python was then used in numerical simulations which confirm the theoretical results. Buddhika Priyasad was the recipient of European Union-funded project TILL DECEMBER 2021. AS OF JANUARY 2022, BUDDHIKA IS A POST DOC AT CHARLES UNIVERSITY, PRAGUE. Priyadarshi Dey is the recipient of the DMS 2021 Research Award. Marcelo Bongarti and Stephen Guffey were awarded two highly competitive NSF funded 2020 Summer Internships.Stephen Guffey at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory working with Dr. James Nutaro on numerical algorithms for PDEs describing Chemotaxis and Marcelo Bongarti working at UCLA with Prof. Andrea Bertozzi on modeling of COVID-19. Buddhika Priyasad was the recipient of the 2019 Dorothy Arata Academic Award sponsored by the University of Memphis Association of Retirees (UMAR). The award was established to honor the memory of Dr. Arata, a former Dean of the Graduate School at the University of Memphis. It is given to a postdoctoral student for an outstanding University of Memphis dissertation. After his PhD in May 2019, Buddhika was awarded a 3-year PostDoc Position at the Mathematics Institute, University of Graz, Austria, to work on a European Union-funded project. Marcelo Bongarti and Stephen Guffey were awarded highly competitive NSF- funded MSGI 2019 Summer Internships at the Argonne National Laboratory in Chicago. Guffey's research project, under the mentorship of Dr. Sven Leyffer and Johann Rudi, entitled "Numerical Determination of Optimal Controls for a Bolza Problem for a Chemotactic System" consisted of investigating and finding optimal controls numerically using finite difference schemes. The schemes were implemented in the programming language AMPL, and numeric solution for the PDE system was attempted using Python. Chemotactic systems are systems of strongly coupled nonlinear partial differential equations of parabolic type. Wellposedness and controllability of PDE's describing chemotactic system is the subject of Steven's PhD dissertation. Bongarti's research project, under the mentorship of Dr. Paul Hovland and Dr. Sri Hari Krishna Narayan was entitled "Efficient Quantum Optimal Control Algorithms". The goal of the project was to investigate how one could take advantage of the fact that the quantum evolution operators are unitary in order to optimize the memory usage within quantum optimal control algorithms. The research involved deals with Schrodinger operators and a control of the underlined dynamics. The results obtained will be considered for journal publication. Congratulations to Yunusa Olufadi, second-place winner in the 32nd Annual Student Research Forum for the Math and Computer Sciences category. The judges found this research on A Method for Analyzing Multivariate Mixed Endpoints with High-Dimensional Covariates to be remarkable. Congratulations to Marcelo Bongarti for receiving the 2nd place prize in the Math and Computer Sciences Category at the 31st Annual Student Research Forum. Marcelo has also won a NSF internship for Summer 2020, working with Andrea Bertozzi at UCLA on modeling the spread of COVID-19. Congratulations to Budhika Priyasad for receiving the 1st place prize in the Math and Computer Sciences Category at the 30th Annual Student Research Forum. Congratulations to Sutthirut Charoenphon for receiving the 2nd place prize in the Math and Computer Sciences Category at the 30th Annual Student Research Forum. Congratulations to Julian Sahasrabudhe whose PhD dissertation, defended in the Spring 2017, has won the Morton Dissertation Award, and was an award recipient in the Math and Computer Sciences Category at the 29th Annual Student Research Forum. Congratulations to Yury Sokolov whose PhD dissertation, defended in the Spring 2016, has won the Morton Dissertation Award. Congratulations to Ali Dogan who received the Graduate Assistant Meritorious Teaching Award for the 2015-2016 academic year and was the 28th Annual Student Research Forum 1st place recipient in the Math and Computer Sciences Category Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/30/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.