By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Syracuse Abroad Madrid First-Semester Option First-Semester Study Abroad in Madrid Discovery Madrid has been carefully designed to help you make the most of the city’s institutions, location, and culture. Students participating in the Discovery Madrid program will enjoy a rich and varied introduction to Spain through a challenging semester-long curriculum. The program fulfills the same curricular requirements as those pursued by freshmen studying on the University’s main campus, while providing a course schedule unique to the Madrid experience. The Madrid staff helps to facilitate your immersion into the Madrid community through service learning, cross-cultural workshops, and extracurricular activities. Ready to apply? Life in Madrid Living with a Spanish Host Family Discovery Madrid students will live with Spanish hosts either within the city of Madrid or in the immediate outskirts on a bus line. This enables you to use the Spanish you’ve learned in class and develop insight into Spanish culture that cannot be achieved any other way. Hosts vary from traditional family to single professionals. The housing coordinator in Madrid makes the placements based on extensive experience with each host. Students usually eat their mid-day meal at one of the cafés or student restaurants. Continental breakfasts are provided by the host family every day, and evening meals are provided weekdays. Students themselves repeatedly describe the host family experience as the best part of being abroad. Find out more about life in Madrid . Academics Advising Connect with Syracuse Abroad through general advising sessions or program appointments. Drop-in or schedule a virtual or in-person advising session at SyracuseAbroad@Bird Monday-Friday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Or, schedule an appointment to meet with a Syracuse Abroad program advisor. View all advising options View all advising options. First-Year Forum All Discovery Madrid students will participate in the Madrid equivalent of the First-Year Forum offered by the College of Arts and Sciences on main campus. The goal of the forum is to orient the student to college life, to Syracuse University, and to studying abroad. Students will discuss host families, cultural adjustment, time management, study habits, expectations of college-level courses, choosing a major, and more. This course will be taught by staff in Madrid with input from the associate dean for curriculum and instruction of the College of Arts and Sciences. Program Field Study During the semester, Syracuse Madrid arranges study tours to important regions and cities in Spain. Students may participate in these trips if they are compatible with their schedules. Courses Students participating in the Discovery Madrid program will enjoy a rich and varied introduction to Spain through a challenging semester-long curriculum. The program fulfills the same curricular requirements as those pursued by freshmen studying on Syracuse University’s main campus, while providing a course schedule unique to the Madrid experience. In addition to courses in the liberal arts, Madrid is the only center that offers the required first semester science, math, and introduction to engineering and computer science courses for students intending to major in these areas or a pre-med track. Upon return to Syracuse in the spring semester, Discovery Madrid participants will be on equal footing academically with their main campus peers. For specific course information, view required and optional courses . Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy