Skip to main content Skip to main content Become a Member Give to HRI Contact Us HEALTH Research Institute About Annual Report Research Basic Biomedical Science Community-based Implementation Strategies Mental Health and Substance Use and Abuse Social Determinants of Health Behavior Programs TOUCH TTTF UHAND Pilots People Leadership Executive Board CAB Our Team Fellows Mentees 2017 Mentees 2018 Affiliates Become A Member News Newsletters Conference Join Our Team Helping Everyone Achieve a LifeTime of Health New Funding Opportunity: Pilot Grant Program - Investigator Development Core This program will support 3-5 innovative pilot grants seeking to break new ground in addressing disparities in addictions and cancer prevention while leveraging the data to successfully transition into the appropriate NIH funding mechanism (e.g., K- and R-series). The deadline for applications is October 1, 2021. Apply Now We Are Committed to health-equity science The communities we serve face many challenges and our primary mission is to conduct innovative research that presents novel prevention and intervention strategies to combat a broad range of health disparities such as obesity, substance abuse and cancer. Become a member FY2020 By the Numbers $895KTotal External Research Expenditures 15Federal Proposals Submitted 61Peer-Reviewed Journal Articles 84Research Presentations and Abstracts The HEALTH Research Institute leverages an interdisciplinary group of researchers at the University of Houston to advance science capable of meeting the health needs of the Houston community and beyond. HRI membership currently spans 9 colleges and 14 academic units. Education - 7 Engineering - 1 Law - 1 Liberal Arts & Social Sciences - 6 Medicine - 4 Natural Sciences & Mathematics - 1 Pharmacy - 1 Social Work - 3 Technology - 1 We Learn From the Community for the community By leveraging expertise from interdisciplinary scientists across six academic units and input from the community, we apply scientific capabilities and determine solutions to address the health needs of neighborhoods in Houston, the state of Texas and beyond. Learn More Community-Engaged Research The HEALTH Research Institute advances a community-engaged research model that rapidly disseminates scientific breakthroughs designed to mitigate, and ultimately eliminate, community-identified health challenges in metropolitan Houston and beyond. We Partner With the Community to solve complex problems Through active and equitable partnerships with our community advisory boards, stakeholders, elected officials and community members, we are uniquely positioned to eliminate health disparities through multi-site cooperative trials, public health initiatives and activities that are embedded in the cultural fabric of the communities we serve. Explore Our Impact Featured Faculty Monique T. Mills Associate Professor Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders Dr. David S. Buck Clinical Professor and Associate Dean for Community Health College of Medicine Dr. Daniel P. O'Connor Dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences LeChauncy D. Woodard Professor College of Medicine Impact Areas Access to Care Basic Biomedical Science Basic Science Community-Based Implementation Strategies Cultural Predictors Environmental Predictors Medical and Health Literacy Mental Health and Substance Use and Abuse Mental Health Outcomes Prevention and Treatment Racism and Discrimination Risk-Factors for Chronic Diseases Social Determinants of Health Behavior Stress Neurobiology Substance Use and Abuse Trauma and Psychological Stress Featured News "Suffering in Silence: Suicide Warnings Hidden in Plain Sight” Rates of Suicide During Pandemic Rise Among Black Americans Within the African American community, the devastating number of high-profile suicides in 2022 has t… “Representation is my inspiration” HEALTH Research Institute’s Dr. Chakema Carmack shares her groundbreaking approach to HIV prevention and education “I believe that representation was my inspiration. Seeing someone before me who is doing what I want… “Gray Area Drinking” Spikes During the Pandemic: The Warning Signs and How to Treat it The jarring reality of a COVID-19 pandemic coupled with the stressors of job loss and increasing iso… "They're forming a Wellness Hub" TTTF's Outreach partner Home of Living Faith gives back to Texas rural communities For families who live near Carrizo Springs or Crystal City, Texas, all it takes one rough patch in l… Houston, TX 77204 (713) 743-7684 Quick Links Become a Member HRI Support Staff UH Research Calendar UH Research Thrusts: Accessible Health Care Join Our Team Connect With Us Read our Newsletter HP ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies