Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home Make things accessible Get started Checklist Tools and resources Websites Documents Videos Online courses Online meetings Social media Managing for accessibility Policy Policy Resources UW Policy UW Guidelines Procurement Milestones Plan People Leadership Task Force UW-IT ATS Liaisons Get involved Get involved Take the Challenge Read the Blog Events Get help Accessible Technology Accessible Technology Get involved Events UW Global Accessibility Awareness Day (UW GAAD) UW GAAD 2022 UW GAAD 2022 6th Annual UW Global Accessibility Awareness Day (UW GAAD) GAAD is an annual global event, designed to engage people around the world in talking, thinking, and learning about digital access and inclusion. Additional information about GAAD is available at https://accessibility.day/. Each year, the UW commemorates GAAD by offering a full day of lectures, workshops, and other activities related to digital accessibility. Event schedule Date: May 19, 2022 Time: 9:00am – 4:00pm Location: Zoom (registration required) UW GAAD sessions are free and open to everyone but registration is required. Session schedule Join us for one session or attend them all! Time Session Title Presenter(s) 9:00 – 9:50 Accessibility Testing Tools Mikey S. Wilson Alyssa Vo Jessica Kuo Cynthia Y. Zhang 9:50 – 10:00 Break N/A 10:00 – 12:00 Workshop: Using Screen Reader Programs to Check Website Accessibility Hadi Rangin 12:00 – 2:00 Lunch Break N/A 2:00 – 2:50 Alt Text for Images and Accessible Charts Anna Marie Golden Gaby de Jongh 2:50 – 3:00 Break N/A 3:00 – 4:00 Accessible Tables in Word and PDF Gaby de Jongh Andrew Michaels Session descriptions Accessibility Testing Tools Mikey S. Wilson, Alyssa Vo, Jessica Kuo, Cynthia Y. Zhang Hadi’s students from Accessible Technology Services will show how to use automatic accessibility checking tools to check for common web accessibility issues. Tools will include Accessibility Bookmarklets, AXE, WAVE, ANDI, and various color contrast tools. Return to Session schedule Workshop: Using Screen Reader Programs to Check Website Accessibility Hadi Rangin This workshop will cover how to use Mac Voiceover and Windows NVDA screen reader programs for basic website accessibility features. After registration, you will receive detailed instructions on how to prepare for the workshop, including how to configure/install Voiceover and NVDA. Please note that there will be no technical support during the workshop itself, so make sure you have set up your chosen screen reader prior to the session. In this workshop we will cover: Basic configurations: speech rate and voice, speech viewer Reading and interaction mode Understanding website infrastructure Understanding page content structure Basic page navigation Interacting with form elements and dynamic components (ex. menus, modals, disclosure) Notifications, warnings, and errors Workshop Schedule 10:00 – 10:30: Quick Introduction to screen reader testing (recommended for all workshop participants) 10:30 – 11:10: Basic Voiceover testing on Mac 11:10 – 11:20: Break 11:20 – 12:00: Basic NVDA testing on Windows Return to Session schedule Alt Text for Images and Accessible Charts Anna Marie Golden, Gaby de Jongh Writing alt text is as much an art as it is a science. In this session, we will give examples of images and provide examples of alt text for images, charts, and graphs. We will also delve into how screen readers interpret charts and graphs without alt text. Return to Session schedule Accessible Tables in Word and PDF Gaby de Jongh, Andrew Michaels Creating accessible tables in Word and PDF is a process. In this session we will take a deeper dive into simplifying complex tables in Word, and remediating tables in PDF using the Table Editor in Adobe Acrobat Pro DC. Return to Session schedule Top of Page Home UW Global Accessibility Awareness Day (UW GAAD) UW GAAD 2022 Search this site Search for: experiencing inaccessible technology? Please email us at help@uw.edu or submit the Accessibility Consultation Form (requires a UW NetID). More info: Getting Help University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA