Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy faculty News When Hurricanes Strike, Social Media Can Save Lives A UCF Study finds social media can be a powerful tool for cities to communicate and to collect information to deploy emergency resources where needed most. Survivor Link National Training Program Launches at UCF The program will support nine social work students, developing their ability to respond to domestic violence. UCF Developing Scam Screener for the Elderly A research team is creating tools to help doctors screen older adults who may be at a higher risk for getting scammed. UCF’s Sherlock Holmes of Microbiology: Salvador Almagro-Moreno UCF’s national expert on flesh-eating bacteria is unraveling the mystery of why some bacteria remain harmless while others go rogue threatening human life. Florida Space Institute Scientist Recognized as 2022 Orange County Distinguished Resident Orange County Mayor Jerry Demings surprised Noemí Pinilla-Alonso, associate scientist at UCF’s Florida Space Institute, with the honor. A Childhood of Travel Shapes Professor’s Passion to Ensure Quality Care Access for All Associate Professor Latarsha Chisholm aims to improve quality of care and reduce disparities while implementing innovation in her field. UCF Professor’s Research Helps Inform Policy, Laws Surrounding Intimate Partner Cyber Abuse Erica Fissel, assistant professor in the Department of Criminal Justice, shares her passion for helping women affected by cyber abuse in honor of Women’s History Month. A Gift for Working With Differences Inspires Professor’s Career in Exceptional Education Professor Janice Seabrooks-Blackmore leads the statewide effort to improve periods of educational transition for youth and young adults with disabilities. UCF’s Bone Doctor Aims to Protect Our Bones Here on Earth and in Space Melanie Coathup is researching the many threats our bones face and how to better protect them throughout our lifespan on Earth and in space. UCF Pegasus Professor Emerita Receives U.S. Department of State Sponsored Fulbright Specialist Award The Fulbright Specialist Program connects U.S. professionals with host institutions abroad to serve as expert consultants over the course of two to six weeks. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida