Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Nursing Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search College of Nursing About Us Dean's Message Mission Faculty Staff Instructional Design and Technology News and Events Organizational Chart Prospective Students Doctor of Nursing Practice program Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs How to apply Students with International Transcripts Information Sessions Tuition and Fees Current Students Scholarships Student Expectations Student Resources Policy Orientation Computer Requirements Commencement and Pinning Ceremony Diversity Center for Diversity and Inclusion Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Simulation Center Preceptors Community Health Clinic Contact Tracer Program Alumni Giving Giving Opportunities Giving FAQ Thank You to Our Supporters Make a Gift Today! Development Office Contact Us UH Home College of Nursing Prospective Students Undergraduate Programs Traditional BSN Track Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Student Handbook RN to BSN Second Degree BSN Traditional BSN Track Program Requirements/Admission Degree Plan and Course Pathway Application to Change Course of Study to Nursing Major Frequently Asked Questions Pre-Nursing Scholarships Search CON search Traditional BSN Track The Traditional BSN Track is designed for University of Houston students who want to apply to the nursing major beginning their junior year to become a registered nurse (RN). The freshman and sophomore years will be at the University of Houston. After gaining admission in the nursing program, the junior and senior years will be taught face-to-face at the University of Houston at Katy instructional site. Program Description The objective of the Traditional BSN Track is to produce graduates for professional nursing practice who can draw upon knowledge from the biological sciences, social sciences, humanities, and nursing to critically analyze human responses to actual and potential health problems and provide appropriate nursing interventions. The Traditional BSN Track is designed for University of Houston students who have completed at least 45 hours in residence toward the Nursing major. Students with AP/IB or dual credit should consult an academic advisor. Students are eligible to apply to the CON Traditional BSN Track once they have completed 45 semester credit hours of the nursing degree plan awarded by the University of Houston. Students may apply using the Application to Change Course of Study to Nursing Major form. Students may be accepted conditionally, pending completion of the UH core requirements, all nursing program pre-requisites, and a criminal background/drug screen clearance.* * Core Requirement IX(b) Writing in the Discipline may be satisfied by NURS 4312. Program Goals Synthesize knowledge from the biological sciences, social sciences, behavioral sciences, humanities and nursing to provide appropriate culturally sensitive care to individuals, families and communities. Demonstrate effective interpersonal communication, collaboration with other professionals and leadership and management skills. Critically analyze and apply research findings to nursing practice related to disease prevention, health promotion, illness care and restoration of health. Utilize critical thinking skills to evaluate the outcomes of nursing care. Serve as client advocates by providing health education and in monitoring and promoting access to cost-effective care. Encourage lifelong learning and create a foundation for graduate study. Integrate professional values and ethical, moral and legal aspects of nursing into practice in a variety of structured and unstructured settings. Traditional BSN Track Course Requirement Checklist Conversations with students: Why choose nursing as a profession? University of Houston at Katy University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies