Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Information Technology Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Resources For I Want To Services Security and Privacy About Students Alumni Faculty Retirees Researchers Visitors Staff Access My Email Log in to LionMail Log in to ADCU Outlook Web App Log in to CUIMC Email Check CUIT Service Alerts Connect to Columbia WiFi Contact the CUIT Service Desk Download Software Log in to CourseWorks Manage My University ID (UNI) Activate My UNI or Email Change My Password Manage My Duo MFA Account Print on Campus Use Zoom View Computer and System Recommendations Visit the ServiceNow Customer Portal Academic Systems Accounts and Access Administrative Systems Cloud Services Computer Lab and Classroom Technologies Email and Calendar Endpoint Device Technologies IT Professional Services Network and Wireless Research Services Security and Risk Management Servers, Backup and Storage Service Desk Software and Apps Telephony and Communications Services Web Services Anti-malware CUIT Security Downloads Data Security Guidelines for International Travel Get Started with Computer Security at Columbia General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Handling Personally Identifying Information Keep Your Operating System Up To Date Phishing: Recognize and Report Secure Resources for Systems Administrators Using Strong Passwords Staff Directory and Org. Chart Senior Leadership Departments Locations IT Policies and Strategies IT Partners at the University Careers Columbia University Information Technology You are here: Home Security and Privacy Data Security Guidelines for International Travel Data Security Guidelines for International Travel Related Links US Department of State Travelers Checklist Columbia Finance Information Technology and Travel Columbia Finance Emergency Assistance Information International Mobile Services for your CU Device Security.org's Guide to Protecting Yourself While Traveling 1. Use encryption settings on all devices. 2. Back up remotely to an encrypted system that you trust before you travel, both to and from your destination. 3. Only take the limited applications/files required to fulfill your needs abroad. Where possible, password-encrypt your files and documents. If possible, use loaner equipment instead of your everyday use devices (contact the CUIT Service Desk to request loaner equipment). 4. Set a new password that you do not use anywhere else for all of the devices that you are traveling with. 5. For mobile devices, set your device to factory reset after 5 incorrect password entries. 6. If you are asked to hand over your device and refuse, you may be detained and/or your device may be confiscated. If you have a loaner device, you may hand it over at no penalty to you if you do not receive it back. Request documentation for any seized equipment. 7. If your device is returned after inspection, change the password. 8. If you are required to handover your password, change your password immediately after the equipment is returned 9. Unless using biometric login methods, if you log in at the airport, change your password immediately after leaving the international airport, regardless of whether you believe yourself to have been seen entering it. 10. LionMail users: If traveling to China or another country where VPN technologies and Google are not allowed, make sure to have an appropriate application (such as Outlook or Apple Mail) configured to connect with LionMail. 11. Never use general terminals, kiosks, or random WIFI networks. 12. If you're a Faculty or Administrator traveling on behalf of Columbia to one of the following countries, please consider using a loaner device (contact the CUIT Service Desk to discuss loaner equipment): China Cuba Hong Kong Iran Israel North Korea Russia South Africa Turkey Venezuela If you believe that your business would be of interest to a foreign government, feel free to check with [email protected] before traveling to confirm the safety of your internet traffic. If you arrive with an infected computer, or if it becomes infected after you're at Columbia, you may lose access to the Internet until your computer has been cleaned. This can take hours, endanger your personal documents, and require you to reformat your hard drive and reinstall your operating system and all your applications from scratch. Although CUIT is here to help you should it be necessary, it's up to you to take the necessary precautions to secure your computer. Precautions to Take: Turn on your operating system's automatic updates feature. Don't ignore it when it notifies you to install an update, especially security updates. Select a secure password for your computer that is different from the password you set on your UNI. Make sure the built-in firewall is on at all times. Scan for and remove any viruses found on your computer. Develop a strategy for backing up your files regularly. Educate yourself about safe computing practices. Reporting Security Problems Send reports of security incidents, attacks, or questions to [email protected]. Request a loaner device Please submit a ticket to the CUIT Service Desk to request loaner equipment rentals. Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Administrative OfficesStudebaker Building, 5th & 6th Floors, 615 West 131st Street · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Walk-in Center202 Philosophy Hall, 1150 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-1919 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close