Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Division of Research and Innovation About Vision, Mission, & Values Researchers Business & Partners News Facilities Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Researcher Resources Identify Interest Getting StartedCommon Funding OpportunitiesInternal Funding OpportunitiesCollaboration and Networking ERA Getting StartedCayuse TrainingImportant FormsSponsor News & Updates Route & Submit Getting StartedElectronic Research AdministrationPI EligibilityResearch Forms & GuidesSponsor Guidance Research Compliance Getting StartedHuman Subjects (IRB)Research Data SecurityFinancial Conflict of InterestAnimal Care (IACUC)Export Controls Award & Grants Getting StartedSponsored AgreementsAdvance AccountsNon-Financial Post-AwardReports and DeliverablesSubaward AdministrationClosing the Award Training Resources Training Calendar Current Training Resources Archive of Past Training FIT Training Resources Cayuse Training CoRS Training How do I? Institutional Information Research Forms Take Action For Researchers For Business Strategic Goals & Tactical Plan Contact Us @UofMemphis FacebooktwitterLinkedn Home Division of Research and Innovation Researchers CoRS Training Communities of Research Scholars (CoRS) Training This activity is developed by the University of Memphis, the Community of Researchers (CoRs)-Health Spaces & Technology Research Community (HSTRC), the National Network of Libraries of Medicine All of Us Project, and the Memphis Public Libraries. The CoRs-HSTRC assessed the health needs of the Memphis population, and preliminary results, present a great need to provide information and training about mental health during the COVID -19 pandemic. The good news is that we have resources available to help our communities and that libraries keep providing relevant information and activities like this one. The CoRs-HSTRC Members: Drs. Sohye Lee, Irma Singarella, Christine Bertz, Seok Won Jin, Susan Elswick, Kathryn Hicks, Y'Esha Williams. Training Recourses TN Building Stronger Brains ACEs Training Tennessee ACEs Initiative is a major statewide effort to establish Tennessee as a national model for how a state can promote culture change in early childhood based on a philosophy that preventing and mitigating adverse childhood experiences, and their impact, is the most promising approach to helping Tennessee children lead productive, healthy lives and ensure the future prosperity of the state. Chronic childhood trauma, or what experts call adverse childhood experiences (ACEs), can disrupt a child's brain-building process. Like building a house in a storm or with below-grade materials and tools, ACEs are toxic to brain development and can compromise the brain's structural integrity. Left unaddressed, ACEs and their effects make it more difficult for a child to succeed in school, live a healthy life and contribute to the state's future prosperity — our communities, our workforce, and our civic life. This training will provide participants much needed information about adverse childhood experiences, the impact such experiences have on child development and brain architecture, and ways in which to prevent and address ACEs within our communities. Learning Objectives: Participants will increase their focus, that every child born in Tennessee has the opportunity to lead a healthy, productive life. Participants will learn about ACEs and the impact on child development and brain architecture. This training will also assist participants with raising public knowledge about ACEs. Will learn key skills and terminology as key stakeholders, in order to use these newly learned skills within their own communities and environments to enhance successful outcomes for all. Training Resources: Webinar Recording Webinar Slides ACEs Surveys: ACEs Pretest ACEs Posttest We are only assessing knowledge gained from participating in this training.* The QPR Gatekeeper The QPR Gatekeeper course is taught in a clear, concise format using the latest in educational technology and practices. QPR stands for Question, Persuade, and Refer — the 3 simple steps anyone can learn to help save a life from suicide. Just as people trained in CPR and the Heimlich Maneuver help save thousands of lives each year, people trained in QPR learn how to recognize the warning signs of a suicide crisis and how to question, persuade, and refer someone to help. Each year thousands of Americans, like you, are saying "Yes" to saving the life of a friend, colleague, sibling, or neighbor. Learning Objectives: Participants will learn how to Question, Persuade and Refer someone who may be suicidal Participants will learn how to get help for yourself or learn more about preventing suicide Participants will learn about the common causes of suicidal behavior Participants will learn the warning signs of suicide Participants will learn how to get help for someone in crisis Training Resources: Webinar Recording Webinar Slides QPR Surveys: QPR Pretest QPR Posttest We are only assessing knowledge gained from participating in this training.* Overview of how these trainings are made possible through CoRS work: Greetings! Welcome thanks for joining us to the workshop. (QPR Suicide Prevention Training or ACES training) This activity is developed by the University of Memphis, Community of Researchers -Health Spaces and the National Network of Libraries of Medicine All of Us Project, and the Memphis Public Libraries. The Community of Researchers assessed the health needs of the Memphis population, and preliminary results, present a great need to provide information and training about mental health during the COVID -19 pandemic. The good news is that we have resources available to help our communities and that libraries keep providing relevant information and activities like this one. The workshop follows the "Train the community model and Today's presenter is Dr. Susan Elswick Susan Elswick obtained her Master of Social Work at University of Tennessee in 2006 and her Doctor of Education in Instructional and Curriculum leadership with a specialty in Applied Behavior Analysis at the University of Memphis in 2011. Served as an adjunct instructor at the University of Tennessee College of Social Work Memphis Campus from 2008-current. Served as a clinical assistant professor at the University Of Memphis Department Of Social Work Memphis from 2012-2015. She served as assistant professor and BA Program Director from 2015-current at the University of Memphis Department of Social Work. Dr. Susan Elswick has over 15 years of clinical mental health experience that includes community mental health, case management, residential programming, ABA-based programming, school-based programming, parent coaching, integrated behavioral health, infant mental health, and home-based services." Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 6/2/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.