Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Engineering and Computer Science Menu Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships List of ECS Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Summer Accelerate Program Summer of Discovery Freshmen Fall Incoming Freshmen Equipment Requirements and Computer Recommendations Transfer Course Recommendations Entrance and Progression Standards ECS Scholars Program Academic Advising Meet with an ECS Advisor Advising Walk-in Hours Course Drops Academic Actions Certification for Graduation ECS Summer Courses Advising Resources Pre-Engineering Requirements ECS Course Repeat Policy Final Exam Policy Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science About Education Materials Science Faculty Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Bioinformatics Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Data Science major Research Computer Science About Us ABET Chair's Welcome Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Software Engineering Concentration Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Cybersecurity Concentration Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Science with Computer Science Fellows Major Online Master of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Bioinformatics Competitive Learning Cybersecurity & Networking Data Science Human-Computer Interaction Machine Learning Software Engineering VLSI Design Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair eBears Seminars Cadence University Program Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & Master of Engineering Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Biomedical Computing Engineering and Cyber-Physical Systems Material and Devices Sustainable Energy and Power Systems Wireless & Microwave Circuits & Systems Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.S. Ph.D. Research Advance Materials and Additive Manufacturing Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering Energy Systems Engineering Geriatric Engineering Humanitarian Engineering and Engineering Ethics Sustainable Engineering Thermo-Fluids Engineering Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us ABET Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.B.A. & M.E. Joint Program Master of Science Master of Engineering Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise Baylor>Engineering & Computer Science>Students & Academics>Student Services>Student Organizations Student Organizations View the ECS Student Org Calendar The Student Organization Calendar is updated by student leadership within the organizations throughout the year. Learn more about our student organizations below. American Society of Mechanical Engineers The Baylor Chapter of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers seeks to provide engineering students with professional development and networking skills, exposure to the world of professional engineering, and a forward-focused community for innovative collaboration. Baylor ASME includes a Robotics Design team that competes annually at the ASME Student Professional Development Conference. Baylor ASME’s mission of “Setting the Standard" for excellence serves as a guide for its operation and leadership. Faculty Advisor: Dr. Kenneth Van Treuren Association for Bioinformatics and Biotechnology Association for Bioinformatics and Biotechnology is a student organization dedicated to helping build and foster common interests in Bioinformatics with those in the major and like-minded students. ABB provides members with 1) a better understanding of Bioinformatics, 2) a network with other students, professors, and professionals in the field, and 3) support for scholarly success. All these goals are achieved through bi-monthly meetings, attendance of symposia, and other social activities. Faculty Advisor: Dr. Erich Baker Association for Computing Machinery The Baylor Student Chapter of ACM was organized and chartered in 1974. The student chapter assists members in maintaining a close, regular association with fellow students and faculty who are also interested in computing. In addition, the chapter sponsors the Baylor Programming Team which competes in the ACM Regional and ACM International Collegiate Programming Contests. Periodic meetings provide a combination of social interaction, professional dialogue, public service, and professional development. Membership is open to anyone with an interest in computing. Faculty Advisor: Dr. Bill Booth Baylor Undergraduate Research in Science and Technology BURST is an undergraduate student organization focusing on providing information and opportunities for students to enhance their undergraduate research experience, hosting lectures to educate students about the principles of research and increasing the awareness of the importance of undergraduate research for those involved in science, technology, engineering and math. Faculty Advisor: Dr. Tamarah Adair Baylor Aero The Baylor University Collegiate Chapter of SAE International is available to all students at Baylor who share a common interest in aerospace, automobiles, commercial vehicles, or motorsports. Baylor Aero is a student-led organization that provides students with an accelerated hands-on experience in mechanical and aerospace engineering. The club competes annually in the intercollegiate SAE Aero Design competition, in which students gain understanding of the aviation sciences and RC electronics through the construction of model aircraft. Summer residents study rapid prototyping through an annual 3-D printed aircraft competition. The club offers company tours and education seminars throughout the year. Faculty Advisor: Dr. Anne Spence Baylor Baja Baylor Baja is a student-led organization that allows engineering students to gain hands-on experience researching, designing, manufacturing, and testing a one-seater, off-road vehicle. The Baja team travels to an annual competition to compete against 100 universities from around the globe and defend design decisions to a panel of professional engineers from various car companies. The experiences available through this club help to round out the education you receive in the classroom and prepare you to be successful whether you want to go into industry or onto graduate school. Faculty Advisor: Dr. Anne Spence Baylor Basic Utility Vehicle Baylor BUV is a humanitarian organization sponsored by Baylor University in Waco, Texas. It is comprised of undergraduate engineering students seeking to apply classroom knowledge and technical skills in pursuit of mission activity, like designing and providing durable transportation in third world countries. Baylor BUV’s mission is to engage students in a mission-oriented project and to provide members hands-on engineering experience within a challenging competition program. Faculty Advisor: Dr. Douglas Smith Baylor Virtual Reality Club The Baylor VR Club is an organization that revolves around four things: Meeting, Developing, Competing and Streaming. The Baylor VR Club hosts monthly meetings that allow all members to experience different aspects of VR. Meetings typically have a theme such as bringing in a company or hosting a tournament. For development, the Baylor VR Club is currently working with the Baylor Library System to develop a VR museum. The team is part of the Oculus Start Program. Additionally, the Baylor VR Club is a part of CVRE, a collegiate VR eSports league. We compete against other schools such as UC Berkeley and Miami. Finally, the Baylor VR Club streams its events and has a commentated stream every Thursday Night. Faculty Advisor: Tanner Osborn Beta Theta Tau Theta Tau is the oldest, largest, and foremost Fraternity for Engineers. Since its founding at the University of Minnesota in 1904, over 35,000 have been initiated over the years. With emphasis on quality and a strong fraternal bond, the Fraternity has chapters only at ABET accredited schools and limits the number of student members in any one of its chapters across the nation. The purpose of Theta Tau is to develop and maintain a high standard of professional interest among its members, and to unite them in a strong bond of fraternal fellowship. Activities carried out by Theta Tau include hosting professional industry speaker talks, faculty research and graduate school talks, social events for members, community service philanthropy, providing tours around the engineering school for incoming freshman, and any activity the fraternity feels will best serve Baylor ECS and its students. The national fraternity provides powerful networking opportunities and the ability to connect with many professional and technical individuals and materials that can help jump-start a young engineer's professional career. Faculty Advisor: Dr. Yang Li Chi Sigma Iota Chi Sigma Iota is a professional computer science fraternity that promotes effective leadership skills in the field of computer science. Chi Sigma Iota sponsors service and professional projects for the students. Through stimulating programs and social gatherings, members gain practical experience to enhance their education at Baylor. Membership is open to men and women committed to service in the field of computer science. Computing for Compassion Computing for Compassion (C4C) serves compassion-based ministries through the appropriate application of computing solutions. Such solutions seek to magnify the capabilities of such ministries by solving their most frustrating problems. C4C enables students an opportunity to apply their technical skills to such mission work, gaining real-world experience along the way. Faculty Advisor: Dr. Jeff Donahoo Baylor Engineers with a Mission Engineers with a Mission (EM) is a unique Christian organization that envisions and mobilizes engineering students to serve the people of developing countries with their technical skills through appropriate technology projects and mission-oriented trips abroad. EM is a registered non-profit organization in the state of Texas and the pilot chapter is at Baylor University. Membership is two-tiered: any engineering major may be a general member, but the technical and spiritual core is made up of the Project Implementation and Testing Crew (PIT Crew) for which a more selective application is used. Faculty Advisor: Brian Thomas Eta Kappa Nu National ECE Honor Society, Kappa Tau Chapter Eta Kappa Nu, abbreviated HKN, is the national honor society for Electrical and Computer Engineering students. Baylor's group is the Kappa Tau Chapter. Membership is by invitation and is based on a review of the student's high academic record and character. Junior ECE majors in the upper one-fourth, and senior ECE students in the upper one-third, of their respective classes are eligible for consideration and election to HKN. Faculty Advisor: Dr. Yang Li The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. The Baylor University Student Branch of the IEEE is affiliated with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc (IEEE), an international organization which is the world's largest technical professional society. Through projects, field trips, and meetings, the student branch fosters the professional growth of its members and promotes a closer relationship among students, faculty, and the engineering community. Baylor Student Branch membership is open to any student member of IEEE. Student membership in IEEE is open to students studying engineering, computer science, or a related field. Faculty Advisor: Steven Potter National Society of Black Engineers Baylor University's Chapter of the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) is available to all students majoring in engineering, science, or applied mathematics. The NSBE mission statement is "to increase the number of culturally responsible Black engineers who excel academically, succeed professionally and positively impact the community." The objective of the Chapter is to encourage the professional career development of African-American and other ethnic minorities in engineering and other science/technology-related fields at Baylor University. Furthermore, the Chapter strives to promote fellowship among minority students in order to increase the number of minority students entering and graduating with a degree in engineering or other science/technology-related fields. Faculty Advisor: Dr. Enrique Blair MTT Society The Baylor University Student Branch Chapter of the IEEE Microwave Theory and Techniques Society (MTT-Society) is a subordinate of the international MTT-Society, which promotes "the advancement of microwave theory and its applications, including RF, microwave, millimeter-wave, and terahertz technologies." With support of dedicated faculty and sponsors, the Baylor Chapter of the MTT-Society strives to bring microwave lecturers to the Baylor campus to speak at least once a month, and MTT-Society members get the opportunity to meet these lecturers in a small group setting. Baylor Chapter membership is open to any student who is a registered member of the international IEEE and MTT-Society. Faculty Advisor: Dr. Charles Baylis OSO eSports The purpose of Oso eSports is to promote and develop the emergence of eSports at Baylor University, leading to campus unity in video gaming and entertainment. We aim to achieve this purpose through three goals. First, enjoy playing video games in order to encourage healthy stress release from rigorous examinations and academic coursework. Second, create a strong gaming and entertainment foundation through this special interest group of dedicated gamers. Third, create and bolster a competitive electronic sports team in order to compete against other colleges and universities with similar goals and identities. Faculty Advisor: Patrick Clancy Pi Tau Sigma Pi Tau Sigma is the International Mechanical Engineering Honor Society, instituted in order to establish a closer bond of fellowship among its members. Its mission is to 'create better engineers through commitment to academic excellence and dedication to service'. Pi Tau Sigma’s core values are integrity, service, and leadership. Membership offers are extended each semester to Junior and Senior ME majors based on scholarship and character. Baylor’s Beta Beta chapter of PTS seeks to provide opportunities to build relationships with other Mechanical Engineers and to learn about different areas of the industry. Faculty Advisor: Dr. Jonathan Rylander SAE International SAE International (formerly the Society of Automotive Engineers) has more than 121,000 members - engineers, business executives, educators, and students from more than 97 countries - who share information and exchange ideas for advancing the engineering of mobility systems. SAE is your one-stop resource for standards development, events, and technical information and expertise used in designing, building, maintaining, and operating self-propelled vehicles for use on land or sea, in air or space. The Baylor University Collegiate Chapter of SAE International is available to all students at Baylor who share a common interest in aerospace, automobiles, commercial vehicles, or motorsports. The organization provides opportunities to grow as an engineer and a professional through company tours, professional speakers, and student competitions. Society of Plastics Engineers The Society of Plastics Engineers is a multidisciplinary organization that strives to increase interest in the area of plastics engineering, plastics scientists, and professional careers in the industry. It is the largest international professional society in the area of polymers and composite processes and products. As part of our mission, the Baylor SPE chapter will provide opportunities for students to learn about plastics engineering by inviting experts in the field to Baylor for symposium and organize industrial site-visits to companies using plastics. SPE will also organize extra-curricular education sessions with hands on training with industrial and characterization equipment not available in the standard undergraduate curriculum. As part of our mission statement we will also provide to Baylor students information about career opportunities in the field of plastics engineering. The Baylor SPE chapter received the International Student Chapter of the Year award in 2019 and 2017, received second place in 2018 and 2016, and earned third place in 2015. Our chapter established an endowment in recognition of Dr. Walter Bradley's contribution to the polymers industry to support scholarships, and in addition has raised over $100,000 in donations and matching funds for equipment purchases for use by Baylor students and their studies. Faculty Advisor: Dr. David Jack Society of Women Engineers Baylor University's Student Section of the Society of Women Engineers is open to all engineering and computer science students, both male and female. The goals of the section are: 1) to provide education about the challenges facing female engineers, 2) to create a sense of identity and community, 3) to provide resources for women engineers, and 4) to enhance leadership and professional skills. These goals are achieved through mentoring relationships, presentations, field trips, and other activities. Faculty Advisors: Dr. Anne Spence and Dr. Crystal Diaz-Espinoza Upsilon Pi Epsilon Upsilon Pi Epsilon is an honorary computer science association that promotes high scholarship and original investigations in the branches of computer science. Membership in the Baylor chapter is composed of individuals whose academic achievements, reputations, and creative abilities deserve recognition. The chapter inducts members twice each year and assists fellow students in their academic pursuits. Faculty Advisor: Dr. Bill Booth Women in Computer Science (WICS) Baylor’s Women in Computer Science (WiCS) is available to all female majors in the Department of Computer Science as well as to other females in STEM fields at Baylor. WiCS is designed to promote community among female computer science majors through discussion based reading groups in addition to Q&A sessions with professional women in tech industries. In addition to developing community, WiCS is designed to limit attrition among females in the major. Through intentional peer mentorships, 1-2 upper-division females will meet weekly with 2-3 students to talk about courses, challenges, perseverance, and internship/job opportunities within Computer Science. Faculty Advisor: Cindy Fry Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships List of ECS Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Summer Accelerate Program Summer of Discovery Freshmen Fall Incoming Freshmen Equipment Requirements and Computer Recommendations Transfer Course Recommendations Entrance and Progression Standards ECS Scholars Program Academic Advising Meet with an ECS Advisor Advising Walk-in Hours Course Drops Academic Actions Certification for Graduation ECS Summer Courses Advising Resources Pre-Engineering Requirements ECS Course Repeat Policy Final Exam Policy Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Engineering & Computer Science One Bear Place #97356 Waco, TX 76798-7356 Computer Science One Bear Place #97141 Waco, TX 76798-7141 (254) 710-3890 ECS_Student_Services@baylor.edu Apply Give Questions for Undergraduate Programs Questions for Graduate Programs General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Academic Advising Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Research Computer Science About Us Degree Programs Research Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us Programs Research Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us Programs Research Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us Programs Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise