Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Student Handbook Student Handbook: Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Requirements for the Ph.D. in Education involve coursework, comprehensive examinations (written and oral), research and scholarly training (research apprenticeship and Teaching Fellowships), and the dissertation (proposal and defense). The manner in which an individual candidate fulfills these requirements must be approved by the student’s adviser, the Degree Programs Office and the Ph.D. Steering Committee. Ph.D. candidates should read this section carefully and consult with their adviser(s) and the program staff concerning any questions that may arise. They should also read the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS) Student Handbook and the Ph.D. Student Guide, available on the programwebsite, for further help in planning and carrying out their graduate study. Coursework and Residence All students are required to complete at least 64 credits for the Ph.D. degree, with at least half of their total credits at HGSE. Students who have graduated with an Ed.M. or C.A.S. within three years of enrolling as Ph.D. students may receive doctoral credit for up to 16 credits completed during their Ed.M. or C.A.S. course of study. Transfer credit from other institutions is not accepted. Ph.D. students are not ordinarily permitted to take Foundations courses. In exceptional cases, they may be permitted to enroll with permission of the Doctoral Studies office and course instructors. Annual Academic Progress Review HGSE requires that all Ph.D. students maintain academic standards and complete their degree within seven years. Ph.D. students’ academic progress will be reviewed by the Ph.D. Steering Committee on an annual basis at the end of each academic year. Additionally, the Ph.D. Steering Committee will conduct a mid-year academic review of students with fall semester directives established by the Ph.D. Steering Committee. At the end of the spring semester, each student will be required to submit a written statement of his/her progress, academic achievements, and plans for the coming year. Students who do not meet relevant early benchmarks or who demonstrate difficulty meeting the program’s academic and conduct standards — including the Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community outlined in this handbook — will be informed of the faculty’s concern about their progress. The purpose of this notification is to provide early warning and intervention for students who may be struggling in the program. Ph.D. students receiving federal financial aid should refer to the Financial Aid section of the GSAS handbook for additional satisfactory progress policies. A student who is experiencing academic difficulty will receive a letter from the program Faculty Director explaining the reasons for the Committee’s concerns and specifying a probationary period in which the student should work with his/her adviser to return to good academic standing. The student will be expected to report back to the Faculty Director about his/her progress within the time specified in their letter. If there is insufficient evidence of adequate performance, or if there are serious concerns about a student’s conduct, behavior, or capacity to succeed, the Steering Committee may vote to terminate the student’s degree candidacy. Criteria for satisfactory performance used in these reviews include the following: satisfactory performance in and completion of required coursework, number of years in the program, comprehensive examination results, timely progress toward all Ph.D. program milestones, and adherence to the Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community outlined in this handbook. Ph.D. students must maintain at least a B+ average in their courses. (See HGSE Grading System section of this handbook for an explanation of the grading system and how averages are calculated.) Earning an Ed.M. or A.M. Candidates for the Ph.D. in Education degree may apply eight courses/32 credits of their doctoral program toward an A.M. in passing from GSAS. Ph.D. in Education students may apply for a master’s only after they have completed at least 16 courses (64 credits) since enrolling in the Ph.D. program. Students who wish to receive the A.M. in passing must file with the GSAS Registrar’s Office. While the department does not admit candidates for a terminal A.M. degree, students who have met all the course requirements may petition to be awarded the A.M. in Education. Students must have a B+ average to receive an A.M. in passing. Comprehensive Examinations The written and oral examinations for the Ph.D. in Education focus on the breadth and depth of students’ knowledge and reasoning. They are administered with three goals in mind: To ensure each candidate’s proficiency in the broad theoretical, empirical, and methodological domains that comprise the interdisciplinary field of education, as well as their particular concentration of study To ensure each candidate’s command of their chosen discipline or field of study within education, and to assess their ability to design, develop, and implement an original research project that contributes to knowledge within this domain To engage each candidate in a constructive, critical examination of their work that considers how their specific program of research advances educational research, policy, and/or practice The written examination, administered in of the summer following the second year of Ph.D. study, is designed to address the first goal. The oral examination, administered in the third year of Ph.D. study, is designed to meet the second and third goals. Students must pass the written examination to be eligible to advance to the oral examination. Dissertation Proposal, Dissertation, and Dissertation Defense Once a Ph.D. student has completed all required coursework and comprehensive examinations, the next step in the degree progression is to formulate the independent research that provides a foundation for the dissertation. Most Ph.D. students will pass their dissertation proposal (“DP”) and begin writing their dissertations during their fourth or fifth year of study. All Ph.D. in Education students are required to have an approved DP by the end of their fourth year of study. The formal process of this doctoral research, described in detail in the Ph.D. Student Guide (available on the program website), begins with a committee-approved dissertation proposal, either before or after the official Dissertation Committee Meeting (DCM) with the student’s appointed committee. After the DP and DCM are complete, students begin the work of generating the dissertation. Once the dissertation has been read by all committee members and deemed acceptable by the chair, the student engages in the Dissertation Defense. Following the defense, the student makes any final revisions, and then submits the dissertation electronically for inclusion in a public database accessible to scholars and practitioners worldwide. Research and Scholarly Training In addition to coursework and comprehensive examinations, all Ph.D. in Education students have opportunities to engage in research and scholarly training during their time at Harvard. Along with conducting independent research that results in a dissertation, the program requires students to attend colloquia, engage in research apprenticeships and serve as Teaching Fellows (minimum of four "slots" at HGSE). For more information about specific research and Teaching Fellow requirements, please review the Ph.D. Student Guide, available on the program website. In this section Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Student Handbook Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice