Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Human Resources Human Resources Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Health & Well-being Menu Main Nav Health & Well-being How can we help you? Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Harvard Pilgrim Portal Programs and Services Overview Cancer and Chronic Illness Elder Caregiving Faculty/Staff Assistance Program Family Caregiving Meditation & Mindfulness Smoking Cessation Vision Van Weight Watchers Weekly Wellness Newsletter Savory Living Active Living Events How can we help you? Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Human Resources Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close At Boston College, we know there are many factors that contribute to the health and well-being of our workforce. Our wide range of programs and services address challenges like elder caregiving, mental health, and quitting smoking. So whether you're looking for a fun fitness challenge or an easy way to renew your glasses prescription, we've got you covered. Featured Programs Walk Across Campus Boston College's Charitable walk campaign marches on this year as we continue to incorporate BC's mission of being "men and women for others" into our health and wellbeing programming. Sign Up Virtual Yoga Whether you're brand new to yoga or a seasoned pro, our virtual classes will get you in the flow. Feeling a little tense from your at-home work set up? Give virtual chair yoga a try! View schedule Vision Van 2020 On-site has been bringing its full-service optometry office on wheels to the Boston College campus since 2017. Independent optometrists in state-of-the-art mobile vision centers provide comprehensive eye exams using the latest technology. Make an Appointment Lunch & Learn Well-being Seminars Connect with colleagues and enjoy a healthy lunch while learning about topics like nutrition, fitness, and resilience in this year-long series. View schedule “If anyone had told me that Chair Yoga could be so effective in calming us down, I would not believe them. Not only did I see the changes in others as they returned from the first session of Chair Yoga on October 26th but I experienced the benefits for myself. Through your Yoga program you are providing tremendous value to our employees. I am sure that most look forward to taking your class in the future. I know I do. Very much appreciated.” On Healthy You Chair Yoga News and Announcements Health and Wellbeing Upcoming Events Healthy You The hallmark of health and well-being initiatives at Boston College is Healthy You, a series of health management programs designed to help faculty and staff understand, improve, and maintain their health. Learn More Back To Top Back To Top Human Resources 129 Lake Street Brighton Campus 617-552-3330 About Programs and Services Active Living Events Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College