Skip to main content Logo for Cornell University and the ILR School The Cornell University logo seal and the ILR School logo placed side-by-side. Main navigation Toggle menu About ILR Who We Are About ILR Founding Faculty Alumni People at ILR Catherwood Library Faculty and Staff Resources Where We Are Cornell ILR in NYC Cornell in Buffalo Conference Centers News & Publications Research News ILR Review ILR Press Programs & Admissions Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Requirements Tuition and Aid Apply Graduate Programs Master of Industrial and Labor Relations (MILR) The Executive Master of Human Resource Management (EMHRM) Program Doctoral Program MILR / MBA Dual Degree Program Professional Education Professional Workshops, Courses, and Training Certificate Programs Senior Leader Programs Customized Professional Programs Current Students Student Success Diversity and Inclusion Student Support Career Services Consider Graduate Schools ILR Commencement Beyond the Classroom Student Research Research Fellowships International Opportunities Credit and Non-Credit Internships Student Organizations Academic Resources ILR Class Enrollment and Course Information Academic Policies Resources for Graduate Students Faculty & Research Our Faculty Faculty Academic Departments Areas of Expertise Our Research & Publications ILR Review ILR Press Centers & Institutes Conducting Research Student Research Catherwood Library Public Impact Leadership & Professional Training Senior Leader Programs Certificate Programs Professional Education Research & Insights Centers & Institutes ILR Press DigitalCommons@ILR Student Engagement Research Fellowships Credit and Non-Credit Internships Global Service Learning Alumni Make an Impact Giving to ILR Make a Gift ILRAA Alumni Association Alumni Chapters ILR Alumni Association Board of Directors Learn More About Alumni Alumni Profiles Groat and Alpern Awards Search Search Close Search Toggle Search Pause video Icon Play video Icon Cornell University Tower Icon Undergraduate Admissions Our flexible, interdisciplinary major lets students pursue a wide range of academic interests and careers. Mortarboard Icon Graduate Programs Study the workplace comprehensively with the world's highest concentration of workplace faculty. Handshake Icon Professional Education Invest in your career by learning from instructors who blend world-leading research with business-tested practicality. It takes work to make an impact Play video Icon Watch Video Undergraduate Programs Our flexible, interdisciplinary major lets students pursue a wide range of academic interests and careers. Explore Graduate Programs Study the workplace comprehensively with the world's highest concentration of workplace faculty. Explore Professional Education Invest in your career by learning from instructors who blend world-leading research with business-tested practicality. Explore Every ILRie Has a Story Read More Read More Alumni Honored with Groat and Alpern Awards Russell Hernandez ’88 and David M. Cohen ’73 were feted April 28 at ILR’s annual celebration in Manhattan. Learn more about the event. Learn more about the event. “No” vote for Unionizing Second Amazon Warehouse in NYC Seen as Setback that Won’t Diminish Worker Momentum Two years of pandemic-related worker activism is inspiring change that our community of scholar-researchers is uniquely poised to address. Follow the story Follow the story Opportunity to Expand the Pie: Katz Op-Ed Professor Harry Katz urges labor and management to use this moment in history to go rely on collective bargaining for a win-win for both sides. May 2, 2022 Opportunity to Expand the Pie: Katz Op-Ed What Happened at the Amazon Warehouse on Staten Island? When a union-free tech giant was upended by a worker-founded union at a Staten Island warehouse April 1, the world was shocked. ILR experts are contextualizing what led to the surprise win and what’s next. Apr 12, 2022 What Happened at the Amazon Warehouse on Staten Island? Labor Tracker Serves as Resource As labor unrest continues to surge, the ILR Labor Action Tracker founded in 2021 continues to provide nationwide information on strikes and other worker actions. Apr 12, 2022 Labor Tracker Serves as Resource “My time at the ILR School helped me understand both labor and management perspectives, which has proven to be a solid foundation for my career.” – Rob Manfred, Commissioner of Major League Baseball Faculty Spotlight William Sonnenstuhl Faculty Member Research findings helped students learn how to change norms around alcohol, hazing, sexual assault and mental health. Read the story Read the story ILRies Change the Future of Work. Learn about ILR's impact Learn about ILR's impact Catherwood Library The Martin P. Catherwood Library is the most comprehensive resource on labor and employment in North America, offering expert research support through reference services, instruction, online guides and access to premier collections. Find out more Find out more ILR in the News See all news It’s a Wrap ILR Class of 2022 members and their families were radiant in Barton Hall Sunday as they marked the finale of their student careers. Jun 1, 2022 It’s a Wrap "You are Part of a Lifelong Community" “Navigate organizations, negotiate deals, resolve conflicts, stand up for what is right, be a leader,” Dean Alex Colvin advised the Class of 2022. “Do the things that ILRies do well! May 31, 2022 "You are Part of a Lifelong Community" Graduation Deferred For A Dream A pair of ILR seniors on the Cornell men’s lacrosse team will miss graduation Saturday when they participate in the NCAA national semifinals vs. Rutgers. May 26, 2022 Graduation Deferred For A Dream Senior Joins Fulbright Program Catherine St. Hilaire ’22, selected for the Fulbright U.S. Student Program! Read the story. May 27, 2022 Senior Joins Fulbright Program Pryce Wins Big Red Leadership Award Khary Price '22 is a winner of the Ronald P. Lynch Senior Spirit Award, given to student-athletes whose leadership on and off the field model the ideals of the Big Red athletics department. May 27, 2022 Pryce Wins Big Red Leadership Award Campus Life A view of student life at Cornell University's ILR School in Ithaca, NY. @cornellilr Congratulations, Khary Pryce ‘22 on winning the Big Red award for leadership on and off the field! Read the story, link in bio. #YellCornell #ilrschool #cornell2022 Dean Alex Colvin addresses ILR graduates today in Barton Hall. #ilries #cornell2022 #graduation #ilrschool Martha is in the building. #cornell2022 #ilrschool Procession. #cornell2022 #ilrschool Graduation day! #cornell2022 #ilrschool On Saturday morning, 239 ILRies will walk onto Schoellkopf Field for the first session of Cornell’s 154th Commencement ceremonies. At that same moment, a pair of ILRies – Dom Doria ’22 and Luca Tria ’22 – will be in a locker room 277 miles away, preparing to take the field at Pratt & Whitney… Footer News Events About ILR ILRie Alumni Magazine Contact Us Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Privacy Policy ILR Brand Coronavirus Resources Directory Centers & Institutes Catherwood Library Conference Centers College Map For faculty and staff Web Accessibility Dean's Statements LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube © 2022 Cornell University | ILR School