COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Special Music Education, Major MajorSpecial Music Education All Programs College of Fine Arts School of Music Wichita State's Bachelor of Special Music Education (BME) will prepare you for a successful career teaching special education children. You'll benefit from quality music instruction combined with the latest teaching methods—and gain real-world experience in the PreK-12 classrooms of Kansas' largest school district and surrounding areas. Learn how special music education is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Fine Arts, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. Once you're admitted to WSU, you'll need to schedule an audition through the School of Music. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum The music education curriculum is divided into four areas: general education, music performance, music theory and history, and music education. Curriculum includes extensive student-teaching experience in local schools—and many opportunities to perform on and off campus. View the curriculum Careers A bachelor's degree from Wichita State's College of Fine Arts will give you the knowledge, skills and confidence to make a positive impact in the classroom—and prepare you to pursue an advanced education degree. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Music Education - Instrumental Music Education - Keyboard Music Education - Vocal Music 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©