COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Travel Section Menu Accounts Payable Chrome River Travel Forms Business Procurement Card Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Accounts Payable Home Travel Travel Services Department processes travel documents, audits Business Procurement Card charges related to travel events and answers general questions about travel for WSU employees. WSU just launched the Chrome River software and it replaced TEM! Chrome River Website Chrome River Login Resources The following resources have been assembled to assist end users with the Travel process. Additional information can be viewed by clicking on the plus sign in each section. COVID-19 Travel and Purchases FAQ Where do I make a comment that the Travel, Pcard Transaction or Purchase is related to COVID-19? COVID Comment Location – will show you the various modules that the “COVID” term is required in. I used my pcard for travel expenses (i.e. conference registration, airfare, rental car, hotel deposit). The travel event has been cancelled due to COVID-19 but the pcard charges have already been reconciled in Chrome River. What steps do I take? Locate the submitted expense report(s) through the “Submitted Last 90 Days” section of Chrome River. Open the report and click on the appropriate expense line. Enter “COVID” in the comment section of each expense line related to the canceled travel event. Contact the vendor associated with each charge and request a refund to be issued back to the pcard. I contacted the vendor for a refund of travel related expenses (i.e. conference registration, airfare, rental car, hotel deposit), however, the vendor will not issue a refund. How do I handle the pcard charges in Chrome River? Reconciled Expenses Locate the submitted expense report(s) through the “Submitted Last 90 Days” section of Chrome River. Open the report and click on the appropriate expense line. Enter “COVID” in the comment section of each expense line related to the canceled travel event. Attach any correspondence from the vendor that documents their refusal to issue a refund. If the vendor does not provide written correspondence, enter a comment on the expense line to document that a refund was requested but not obtained from the vendor. Unreconciled Expenses Create a new expense report for the cancelled travel event. Reconcile the pcard charge as if the trip had occurred as normal. Save the expense line. Before submitting the expense report, enter “COVID” in the comment section of each expense line related to the canceled travel event. Attach any correspondence from the vendor that documents their refusal to issue a refund. If the vendor does not provide written correspondence, enter a comment on the expense line to document that a refund was requested but not obtained from the vendor. I used my personal funds for travel expenses (i.e. conference registration, airfare, rental car, hotel deposit) and now my travel event has been cancelled. How do I get reimbursed for my expenses? Make a list of all expenses related to the canceled trip. Contact each vendor (i.e. conference, airline, hotel, rental car company) to inform them of the cancellation and ask for a refund. Communicate the status of each expense/refund to the Travel department wsutraveloffice@wichita.edu and the appropriate departmental personnel (i.e. supervisor, delegate, business manager). Vendor issues credit No further action is needed Vendor does not issue a credit Create a new expense report for the cancelled travel event. Add each expense to the report as if the trip had occurred as normal. Save each expense line. Before submitting the expense report, enter “COVID” in the comment section of each expense line related to the canceled travel event. Attach any correspondence from the vendor that documents their refusal to issue a refund. If the vendor does not provide written correspondence, enter a comment on the expense line to document that a refund was requested but not obtained from the vendor. How do I handle my approved Pre-Approval for a travel event that has been cancelled? Locate the submitted Pre-Approval report(s) through the “Submitted Last 90 Days” section of Chrome River. Enter “COVID” in the comments field on the header of the Pre-Approval and click the Post button located to the right of the comment. Click the Expire button located at the top of the page. Click the Expire button when the system asks if you are sure you want to expire the Pre-Approval. My travel event wasn’t cancelled, but I do not feel comfortable attending amid the COVID-19 outbreak - what are my next steps? Discuss situation with Supervisor and upon agreement, proceed with the following steps. Make a list of all expenses related to the canceled trip. Contact each vendor (i.e. Conference, airline, hotel, rental car company) to inform them of the cancellation and ask for a refund. Communicate the status of each expense/refund to the Travel department wsutraveloffice@wichita.edu and the appropriate departmental personnel (i.e. supervisor, delegate, business manager). See the appropriate FAQ above for detailed directions on how to proceed. The airline will not refund my airfare, they will only issue a ticket credit in my name that can be applied towards a future ticket purchase. How should I handle this? Send an email to wsutraveloffice@wichita.edu to provide details about the credit (i.e. the airline carrier, amount of credit, fees assessed, etc.). Traveler enters a comment on the original expense line for the transaction indicating that a ticket credit has been obtained. Traveler tracks the unused ticket credit and applies the credit towards the airfare ticket for the next scheduled business travel event. At the time of rebooking, airline may assess a $200 change fee. If they do, inform airline of the reason for the original cancellation (COVID-19) and send cancellation documentation to airline. Traveler provides documentation in Chrome River showing the application of the unused ticket credit. What if I still have questions regarding travel? If you have questions or need guidance on processing your travel in Chrome River, please contact the Travel department at wsutraveloffice@wichita.edu or by phone at (316) 978 -5988. Travel General Information - Including Handbook, Price Quote Comparison, BPC Travel Handbook - The following handbook is presented to promote efficiency in processing business travel. Travel Quick Reference Guide - Find answers to frequently asked questions, along with a brief list of reimbursable and non-reimbursable expenses. Price Quote Comparison - The price quote comparison provides guidance regarding: Driving in lieu of flying Business Procurement Card (BPC) is an individual credit card issued by WSU and billed directly to the university. The card is to be used for business related travel expenses as outlined in the BPC manual. BPC Application For questions related to the BPC program and purchases contact the BPC Program Administrator - by email: PcardAdmin@wichita.edu Meals and Incidental Expense & Lodging - Including Meal Per Diem and Lodging rates for a location Meals and Incidental Expense (M&IE) includes the cost of meals (including taxes and tips), along with all incidental fees (including tips) to hotel porters, bellhops, doormen, and maids. Daily lodging rates will be determined solely by the use of CONUS. The rate is for the room only; any additional taxes such as occupancy tax will be reimbursed at the full amount. Contiguous United States (CONUS) https://www.gsa.gov/travel/plan-book/per-diem-rates Outside Contiguous United States (OCONUS) http://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/site/perdiemCalc.cfm International Locations (Department of State) https://aoprals.state.gov/web920/per_diem.asp Reduced Subsistence (meals or lodging) Expense - DA-37 Form Mileage - Including rates and mileage log These reimbursement rates are considered to cover all costs associated with the use of the privately owned conveyance. This includes, but is not limited to: gasoline, oil, tires, repairs, insurance (including uninsured losses, and insurance deductibles resulting from damage to the privately owned conveyance), license fees, depreciation costs and expenses of any type. The rates are for Fiscal Year 2021. $0.56 per mile for privately owned automobile $0.54 per mile for privately owned motorcycle $0.16 per mile for moving mileage rate $1.26 per mile for privately owned airplane (based on air miles rather than highway miles) This mileage log is used for vicinity travel and should be turned in once a month for reimbursement. Vehicle Rental - Including FAQ's, Rates, Accident Procedures Vehicle Rental FAQ's - Procedures and frequently asked questions when renting a vehicle for business travel. Vehicle Rental Rates - Daily - Daily rates for WSU contracted vendors, Hertz and Enterprise. Vehicle Rental Rates - Weekly - Weekly rates for WSU contracted vendors, Hertz and Enterprise. Rental Vehicle Accident Procedures - Guidance for reporting an accident and filing a claim. Confirmation to Travel - This form is to be filled out by the Travelers Supervisor when the traveler is involved in an accident. Chrome River - Travel & Expense Software Solution - Including general information, job aids Chrome River is WSU's new comprehensive Travel and Expense Management system. This software will replace TEM and the iTravel Reconciliation process along with the electronic approvals through Banner Workflow. Chrome River is now LIVE and you can log in using this link: Chrome River Login Visit Chrome River's webpage for more information and training opportunities using this link: Chrome River Website The quick reference guides below are designed to give a brief explanation on each topic with reference pictures to aid you in completing the report in Chrome River and start enjoying the new benefits. For detailed information refer to the Chrome River website at wichita.edu/cr. Pre-Approval Creating a Pre-Approval Report - Employee Creating a Pre-Approval Report - Student Creating a Pre-Approval Report - Candidate Travel Expense Creating an Expense Report - Employee Creating an Expense Report - Employee with Pcard Expenses Creating an Expense Report - Candidate Creating an Expense Report - Student BPC (Pcard) Statement Schedule and Report Due Dates for 2022 Detailed Tile Explanation Creating a Per Diem Expense Creating a Hotel Expense Creating a Mileage Expense Creating a Per Diem Expense for Pre-Approval Receipts Introduction to Receipts Uploading Receipts How to upload receipts through email General How to add a Delegate to your profile Travel & Expense Management (TEM) was WSU's previous software that was used to process travel documents. The software was sunsetted on July 25th and replaced with Chrome River. To access travel documents that were processed through TEM please contact wsutraveloffice@wichita.edu . Travel Shared Service - Including Information and Request Form The Travel Services Team is here to assist you with processing travel in the Chrome River Travel & Expense system. Contact our department to see how you can: Decrease the amount of time staff spend on travel related data entry Receive travel reimbursements faster Reduce the number of travel documents that are returned for correction Improve your travel experience with WSU Travel Request Instructions - This guide will assist you in filling out the travel request form and an example of a completed request form. Travel Request Form - Use this form to capture travel details and communicate with the Travel Shared Services Team. Travel Resources - Including Policies for WSU and State of Kansas WSU Policies and Procedures - Table of Contents 13.20 Out of State Travel 13.02 Border City 13.11 Private Vehicle Reimbursement State of Kanas Travel Information for Employees - State of Kansas Link Mandatory Direct Deposit for Travel Reimbursements The State of Kansas requires employee reimbursements to be made via direct deposit. Travelers needing to set up direct deposit information should access the Direct Deposit Information link located in the Employee Self-Service section of myWSU. The State of Kansas offers an alternative payment method listed below, you must enroll in U.S. Bank Focus Pay Card. Forms and additional program information is listed below: U.S. Bank Focus Pay Card Enrollment Form U.S. Bank Focus Pay Card Information U.S. Bank Focus Pay Card Fee Schedule COVID-19 WSU Information Please refer to the following pages for more information about the Wichita State University response to COVID-19. What to Expect as a Remote Student Teaching Remotely WSU Student Health Services COVID-19 COVID-19 News COVID-19 Related Refunds COVID-19 Announcements Employee FAQ Supervisor FAQ Research FAQ Working Remotely FAQ Remote working Info Clinical Rotations in CHP Signage Templates Apply for COVID-19 Student Emergency Funds Support the COVID-19 Student Emergency Fund What's New Effective Sunday, August 1, 2021, Sunflower Travel agency will be increasing its booking fees for airfare, hotel, and vehicle rental reservations. The new pricing is as follows: - Hotel and vehicle reservations $15.00 - Airfare bookings $30.00 Each international travel event requires completion of BOTH the Chrome River Pre-Approval Report and the International Travel Authorization Form prior to making travel arrangements. Click HERE to access the form. Contact compliance@wichita.edu with questions or for assistance. NEW! BPC (Pcard) Statement Schedule and Report Due Dates for 2022. BPC Schedule Sign up for Chrome River and BPC card trainings in myTraining through myWSU. WSU's preferred Travel Agency is Sunflower Travel 316-733-2753. REAL ID Compliant: Travelers will be required to have a REAL ID to board domestic flights. The requirements for Kansas can be found at: https://ksrevenue.org/dovrealid.html New Chrome River app for Apple and Android devices: The app is free and now works with Single Sign On (SSO)! Chrome River Login Directions Forms & Quick Links Forms Certified Statement for Receipts BPC Application Mileage Log Travel Request Form BPC Schedule International Travel Authorization Form Quick Links Travel Handbook FAQs Contact Us Travel Services Department Jardine Hall Room 201, Box 38 wsutraveloffice@wichita.edu Phone: (316) 978-3070 Fax: (316) 978-3738 Got Questions? Need Assistance? Email Us! Meet the Staff Accounts Payable Invoices Chrome River Pcard Reconciliation Journal Requests IOTD's Vendor Questions Payment Inquiries Greenphire Program Inquiries Check Cancellation & Reissue Chrome River Training and Assistance AP General Questions Accounts Payable Website Procurement Card Administration Submit Procurement Card Applications Transaction and Card Limit Requests Declines / Override Requests Pcard Program Training Pcard General Questions Pcard Website Purchasing Requisition Training and Assistance Submit Requisition Back-up Documentation Purchasing Policy Guidance Request for Proposal (RFP) and Request for Bid (RFB) Guidance Purchase Orders Purchasing General Questions Purchasing Website Travel Travel Authorizations Expense Reports Travel Related Pcard Reconciliation Accident Reporting Travel Policy Questions Chrome River Training and Assistance Travel General Questions Travel Website 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©