Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Office of Diversity and Inclusion Home About People Programming & Initiatives Support & Diversification of the Talent Pipeline Connecting Talent program L.E.A.D. (Learning & Engaging Around Diversity) Public Health Womxn of Color Collective School of Public Health Students of Color Affinity Group Statement on Health Disparities and COVID-19 Training & Events Resources News Site Navigation Home About People Leadership Staff Diversity and Inclusion Committee Staff Advisory Committee Center and Departmental DIAP Committee contacts Programming & Initiatives Support & Diversification of the Talent Pipeline Connecting Talent program Connecting graduate students of color to faculty and staff Connecting staff L.E.A.D. (Learning & Engaging Around Diversity) Public Health Womxn of Color Collective School of Public Health Students of Color Affinity Group Statement on Health Disparities and COVID-19 Training & Events Ongoing trainings Past Events Webinar Resources during COVID-19 Resources Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion in a Virtual Space Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion for DEI Practitioners Resources & Considerations for Researchers, Instructors, and Students Diversity and inclusion offices Abuse, discrimination, and harassment Academic success Mental and physical health and wellness Title IX Resources Confidential Resources Non-Confidential Resources News L.E.A.D. (Learning & Engaging Around Diversity) We invite you to be a part of the LEAD Planning Committee, a vibrant group of student leaders in the school that helps lead discussions. If you want to join the leadership team, contact [email protected]. 2020-2021 Academic Year Meeting Schedule Additional Spring dates forthcoming! All are invited, including students, staff, post-docs and faculty! A note on accessibility: The School of Public Health building is wheelchair accessible with ramps and elevators, ADA compliant doorways and restrooms. Please be advised, there are no automatic doors. We are happy to make all ease-of-access arrangements, in advance of your arrival. Please do not hesitate to get in touch with j[email protected] for any accessibility needs or requests. Leadership William Lodge II, doctoral student Nicholle Igbinyemi, masters student Krysta Pelowich, masters student Emily O'Neill, doctoral student Andrew C Walch, masters student Briana Roberts, masters student Maggie White, masters student LEAD Meeting Archive State Crime, Native Americans and COVID-19 “State Crime, Native Americans and COVID-19” by Laura Finley can be found here We realize it is a longer article PLEASE NOTE that we are only suggesting that you read the sections on Structural Disadvantage and AI/NA Peoples, COVID-19, AI/NA Peoples and State Crime Racial disparities in COVID-19 a. https://www.pbs.org/newshour/health/outcry-over-racial-data-grows-as-virus-slams-black-americans - this includes data analyzed by the AP based on state and local government data b. https://www.npr.org/sections/coronavirus-live-updates/2020/04/08/830030932/cdc-hospital-data-point-to-racial-disparity-in-covid-19-cases This highlights CDC data c. https://boston.cbslocal.com/2020/04/08/coronavirus-impact-communities-color-stay-at-home-advisory-boston/ This highlights prisoner health and also crossover populations with health providers in this population Indigenous and Native Peoples Tachine, A. & McKinley Johns Brayboy, B. (February 2018). “I am concerned for our Native community”: Ways to support Native college students facing societal fears. Medium. Shotton, H.J. & Starr Minthorn, R. (2018). Repositioning the Norms of the Academy: RESEARCH AS WISDOM from Reclaiming Indigenous research in higher education. Rutgers University Press. *Please be sure to sign into your Brown Gmail account to access this reading.* Bird, M. E. (2002). Health and indigenous people: Recommendations for the next generation. American Journal of Public Health. Invisible Labor Williams June, Audrey. (November 2015). The Invisible Labor of Minority Professors. The Chronicle of Higher Education. Edwards, B. (February 2018). Women and Men of Color Pay an ‘Emotional Tax’ at Work That’s Detrimental to Their Overall Health and Ability to Thrive: Report. The Root. Matthew, P. (November 2016). What Is Faculty Diversity Worth to a University?. The Atlantic. Implicit/Unconscious Bias Nordell, J. (March 2017). Is This How Discrimination Ends?. The Atlantic. For more examples of implicit bias: Stories of Battling Unconscious Bias Payne, K., Niemi, L., Doris, J.M. (March 2018). How to Think about "Implicit Bias". The Scientific American. Blair, I. V., Steiner, J. F., & Havranek, E. P. (2011). Unconscious (implicit) bias and health disparities: where do we go from here?. The Permanente Journal, 15(2), 71. Ableism Sensoy, Ö. & DiAngelo, R. (2012). Understanding Privilege Through Ableism. In Is everyone really equal?: An introduction to key concepts in critical social justice education (pp. 81-101). NY: Teachers College Press. Eli Clare. (2015). The Mountain. In Exile and Pride: Disability, Queerness, and Liberation (pp. 1-13). Durham: Duke University Press. *this chapter mentions sexual assault in the section titled "III: Home" Environmental Racism and Justice Bullard, R. D. (1999). Dismantling environmental racism in the USA. Local Environment, 4(1), 5-19. Shamus, K.J. (March 2016). How race, class set the stage for Flint water crisis. The Detroit Free Press. Owens, C. (January 2016). Providence Maps Show “Apartheid Lines” of Environmental Racism. Next City. Lombroso D. & Newkirk II, V. (June 2017). Environmental Racism Is the New Jim Crow. The Atlantic Gender and Sexuality National Center for Transgender Equality. (2018). Understanding Non-Binary People: How to Be Respectful and Supportive. Sam Killermann. (2018). 30+ Examples of Heterosexual Privilege in the US. These dynamics are just a few examples of the privilege that heterosexual (or straight) people have. Lesbian, gay, bisexual, pansexual, asexual, and queer people have a range of different experiences but cannot count on most of these conditions in their lives. Lourdes Ashley Hunter. (2018). All My Life I Had To Fight To Exist & How Trump Defines Gender Won’t Change That Medical Mistrust Khullar, D. (2018). Do you trust the medical profession?. The New York Times. Goshua, A. (November 2018). Medical schools aren’t preparing doctors to serve trans and non-binary people. BMJ Opinion. Chuck, E. (May 2018). How training doctors in implicit bias could save the lives of black mothers. NBC News.* *Please note this article contains descriptions of pregnancy-related trauma* Programming & Initiatives Support & Diversification of the Talent Pipeline Connecting Talent program L.E.A.D. (Learning & Engaging Around Diversity) Public Health Womxn of Color Collective School of Public Health Students of Color Affinity Group Statement on Health Disparities and COVID-19 Office of the Dean of Diversity and Inclusion Office of the Dean of Diversity and Inclusion Brown University School of Public Health 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top