Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Student Center and Activities Student Organizations Student Organizations Guidelines and Funding Options Student Organization Resources Hughes-Trigg Student Center Hughes-Trigg Student Center Welcome Desk HTSC Renovations Event Information Event Information HTSC Event Calendar Reservation Rates Room Features HTSC Procedures About Us ☰ Event Information Student Affairs Student Center and Activities Event Information If you are looking to host an event or meeting on the SMU campus, Hughes-Trigg Student Center is an excellent central location that offers a variety of spaces that can meet the needs of any event. Many rooms include furniture that can be reconfigured to any setup and upgraded conference technology. Learn more about the spaces that HTSC has to offer by following the links below. Effective January 10th, SMU is utilizing the STABLE software to manage event reservations across campus. To reserve a room and resources, log in to STABLE at smu.edu/stable. Clients external to SMU can fill out an Event Request Form here. If you need to reserve a space “as-is” in the Hughes-Trigg Student Center, utilize the Indoor Reservations form. If your event requires resources (Audio/Visual support, tables & chairs, catering, etc.), you must ALSO fill out the Indoor Event Request form at least 5 business days before your event. There is no charge to utilize HTSC spaces and resources for SMU departments or student organizations. Exceptions to this are as follows: Damage incurred to property or resources No-notice cancellations An SMU member uses their reservation privilege to book a space for which a non-SMU entity is the primary host/audience/participant and/or does not directly serve current SMU students, faculty, or staff (i.e., hosting a meeting or conference for your professional network) Attendees are charged for admission, refreshments, or any part of their participation During the transition to the STABLE software, it is anticipated that there will be a period of adjustment for both clients and space managers. Before reaching out to Hughes-Trigg personnel, familiarize yourself with the easy-to-follow instructional video here, FAQs here and tutorial resources here. If you still have questions or concerns after examining these resources, please e-mail htsc@smu.edu and our staff will respond as soon as they are able. We look forward to hosting you soon! Promote Your Event Hughes-Trigg Student Center offers several promotional opportunities for SMU departments, student organizations and external clients. Tabling Promote your event or organization by tabling at Hughes-Trigg! Table availability and location will vary during the renovation. SMU organizations and departments can request a table via the Indoor Reservations icon in STABLE. Non-SMU external clients can request a table by emailing htsc@smu.edu. West Bridge Banners SMU departments and chartered student organizations only may post banners on the West Bridge railing. Your organization/department is responsible for securing the banner to the railing and removing the banner following the event. Please do not use tape. Organizations will be charged for any damages incurred. Additional Resources These additional resources are available to SMU student organizations and departments only. Register your event on Connect.SMU where it can be seen by 11,000 active users. Use stake signs to promote your event around campus. Contact Us Email: HTSC@smu.edu | Phone: 214-768-4400 Physical Address: 3140 Dyer Street Dallas, TX 75205 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750436 Dallas, TX 75275 Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share