Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date May 9, 2022 2022-05-09 Media Contact News Staff [email protected] 401-863-2476 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Men's lacrosse set to host Virginia in NCAA Tournament on Saturday, May 14 By Brown Athletics Facing off in the tournament’s second round, Brown and Virginia will meet for the first time since March 2020, when Brown won a 14-13 thriller before the COVID-19 pandemic ended the 2020 season. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — The Ivy League regular season champion Brown Bears (10-5, 4-2 Ivy League) were one of 18 programs from across the nation to earn a berth into the 2022 NCAA Division I Men’s Lacrosse Tournament. The Bears are the tournament’s eighth seed and will host Virginia (11-3, 5-1 ACC), the lone Atlantic Coast Conference program competing in the 2022 field. There are four other Ivy programs seeded in the field, and the Ivy League will have five of the eight Second Round home games. Ticket and spectator information will be released as it becomes available. "It's humbling to say the least," said Bears head coach Mike Daly. "We have a great respect for this tournament, and we're glad that our body of work was worthy enough. Now the work begins. We gotta win — that's all it is at this time of year… It's about making more plays than that opponent and moving on.” For Brown, it marks the 15th NCAA tournament appearance in program history and first since 2016. For Daly, who became head coach following the 2016 season, it marks his first trip to the Division I tournament. Brown and Virginia will meet for the first time in over two years on Saturday, May 14, at 7:30 at Brown’s Stevenson-Pincince Field. To be exact, it's the first meeting in 797 days dating back to March 8, 2020 — a 14-13 thriller on College Hill with the Bears coming out on top before the COVID-19 pandemic ended the season. Saturday marks the 15th meeting between the Bears and Cavaliers in a series dating back to 1968 and the third meeting with Daly and Virginia coach Lars Tiffany on their respective sidelines. Virginia captured a 14-13 overtime win over the Daly-led Bears in 2019 before the Bears’ victory in 2020. The winner will advance to the NCAA quarterfinal round and take on one of three teams: top-seed Maryland, Manhattan or Vermont. NCAA Division I Men’s Lacrosse Tournament Notes The Ivy League led all conferences with six bids. The ACC received one bid in Virginia, the fewest since 1975. Brown has squared off against six of the 17 Tournament teams. Five of those are conference foes with Vermont as the lone out-of-conference opponent from 2022 in the tournament field. Tags Athletics Related news: News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Men's lacrosse set to host Virginia in NCAA Tournament on Saturday, May 14 Open details for Men's lacrosse set to host Virginia in NCAA Tournament on Saturday, May 14 Bookmark this Page