Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Schlesinger Library / About the Library Schlesinger Library / About the Library Visit the Library Toggle information Close detail panel Foyer of the Schlesinger Library. Photo by Jessica Brilli Open to the public, the library welcomes all researchers who wish to use the collections, view exhibitions, and attend events. Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Copy Link The Schlesinger Library’s Reading Room is open Monday through Friday from 10 AM to 4 PM. The Lia and William Poorvu Gallery is open to all visitors, Monday through Friday, 9 AM to 5 PM. All visitors must read and abide by current Harvard Radcliffe Institute policies. Additional Information Library Hours Monday through Friday: 10 AM to 4 PM. Saturday and Sunday: closed. All visitors must read and abide by current Harvard Radcliffe Institute policies. 2022 Library Closings (Subject to change) Memorial Day: Monday, May 30, and Tuesday, May 31 Juneteenth: Friday, June 17, and Monday, June 20 Independence Day: Friday, July 1, and Monday, July 4 Labor Day: Monday, September 5 Columbus Day (Federal)/Indigenous Peoples’ Day (City of Cambridge): Monday, October 10 Veterans Day: Friday, November 11 Wednesday before Thanksgiving: Wednesday, November 23 Thanksgiving: Thursday, November 24 Friday after Thanksgiving: Friday, November 25 Christmas Eve: Friday, December 23 (observed) Christmas Day: Monday, December 26 (observed) Winter Recess: Monday, December 27–Friday, December 30 Directions The library is located in Radcliffe Yard, three blocks outside of Harvard Square at 3 James Street, Cambridge, MA 02138. Parking is limited, and visitors are encouraged to use public transportation. Plan Your Research Visit Availability of Materials Since many of our collections are stored off-site and/or have access restrictions, you are advised to check the availability of materials in advance of your visit. We strongly encourage you to search HOLLIS Catalog to get more information about the items you think you will want to use. The catalog records will indicate whether items are stored off-site, restricted, or closed. If the item(s) in which you are interested are stored off-site and/or restricted, or if you are having difficulty searching the library holdings, please contact us for further assistance. When You Arrive All reading room users are required to register upon their first visit and to show one form of photo identification. Reception staff will assign a locker for any bags, cases, or valuables that you bring into the library. Once you have registered, proceed to the second-floor reference desk, where staff will assist you with filling out call slips and finding the materials you need. In coming to campus, all visitors to Harvard Radcliffe Institute attest to compliance with Radcliffe visitor safety guidelines: Abide by all state, local, and University COVID-19 guidelines and protocols in place at the time you come to campus. Acknowledge the evolving nature of current protocols and agree to read all communications sent in advance to ensure you are up to date on the current policies and protocols. Understand that the University strongly encourages all guests to be fully vaccinated and boosted (if eligible) and if unvaccinated to complete a COVID-19 (PCR or antigen) test before arriving on campus. Not to come to campus if you/your guests are exhibiting symptoms, have been diagnosed with COVID-19, or have otherwise been instructed to quarantine or isolate. Although not required, masking is encouraged in the Schlesinger Library Reading Room. Use of the Carol K. Pforzheimer Reading Room Please read our Library Policies prior to your visit. All materials are retrieved by staff after a call slip has been submitted. With the exception of reference books, all library materials must be used in the Carol K. Pforzheimer Reading Room. You are encouraged to bring a digital camera or camera enabled device. Digital photography is allowed for research purposes. Please read our Reading Room Digital Imaging Policy. The Library also offers scanning services. Laptop and tablet computers are welcome in the reading room. Electrical outlets and network connections are available at each seat. A wireless network is also available. Accommodations The Harvard University Travel Portal provides up-to-date information about area hotels and ground transportation. Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College