Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index University Recreation Menu Search TTU University Recreation University Recreation Policies Click the relevant tab below to find out the policies for our different departments! Department of University RecreationEntry Policies and MembershipsStudent Recreation CenterAquatic Center and Leisure PoolFitness and Wellness Department of University Recreation The philosophy of University Recreation dictates that no single activity, special event, and/or sport should dominate the use of the Student Recreation Center (SRC). University Recreation upholds the University Code of Student Conduct. University Recreation strives to conduct all activities in the most prudent manner possible; however, due to the inherent risk of injury in any activity, it is the responsibility of each participant to be aware that there are assumed risks involved in participation. All participants are strongly urged to have a yearly medical examination and to carry medical insurance coverage. Texas Tech University and its staff are not responsible for injuries including death. Participation in University Recreation facilities or programming is voluntary. Rules and policies are posted and published for distribution to our patrons. All policies are established by the Department of University Recreation and Texas Tech University. The authority to enforce these policies is vested in University Recreation staff and the administrative personnel responsible for these programs. Student employees do not have the option to overlook, change, or bend rules; their task is to conduct business according to set policies. Students in violation of University Recreation policies and/or procedures may have disciplinary action taken per the guidelines of the Texas Tech University Handbook and the Texas Tech University Code of Student Conduct. Entry Policies and Memberships Click here to be taken to our Member Services page General Policies To enter University Recreation facilities – members will need to present their valid TTU ID/membership card. All membership purchases and questions should be directed to the Main Office (Room 202 on the top floor of the Rec Center or at 806.742.3351). Business hours for the Main Office are Monday through Friday from 8:00am – 6:00pm. Memberships are not transferable and they may be revoked at any time with cause. Students All students who have paid the Rec fee may use the SRC and Leisure Pool/Aquatic Center. Students who have not paid their Rec fee or who have had their Rec fee waived must purchase a membership. Spouses of students have the option to purchase a membership. The spouse will need to bring their driver's license and the student's valid TTU ID when purchasing this membership. Proof of marriage will be required for spousal memberships. Campus Faculty/Staff & TTU Retirees have the option to purchase a Rec Center membership. Access will be added to the patron's TTU ID. HSC Employees, Campus Ministries, & USDA employees also have the option to purchase a Campus membership. A membership card will be made for those in these categories. Spouses of Campus members have the option to purchase a membership. The spouse will need to bring their driver's license and the Campus member's valid TTU ID/membership card when purchasing this membership. Proof of marriage will be required for spousal memberships. Off-Campus Those eligible for an Off-Campus membership are: State employees TTU Alumni School District employees UMC employees Public servants Military To purchase an Off-Campus membership, patrons will need to bring their driver's license and proof of affiliation with one of these categories. Spouses of Off-Campus members have the option to purchase a membership. The Off-Campus member will need to come into the Main Office with the spouse. The spouse will need to bring their driver's license and the Off-Campus member will need to bring their membership card and proof of employment when purchasing this membership. Proof of marriage will be required for spousal memberships. Children Patrons with a valid membership can purchase a membership for each of their children. The member will need to bring in their TTU ID/Rec membership card. Children under the age of 17 are allowed in the Rec Center during open hours, but they must be accompanied by an adult. The adult and child must stay within arm's reach of each other during the visit. For safety reasons, there are certain restrictions that apply to a child's participation in the facility: Children under the age of 17 are not allowed in the Free Weight Room, Raider Power Zone, or Texas Tech CrossFit. Children between the ages of 12 – 16 can utilize machine weight equipment and cardio equipment and attend Raider X classes when supervised by an adult. Children under the age of 12 cannot utilize any weight or cardio equipment or attend Raider X classes. Children under the age of 17 can only be at the Aquatic Center/Leisure Pool during Family Hours. Dates and times for Family Hours (FH) can be found under the “Hours” tab on the website. Adjunct Each Rec Center member (with the exception of Adjuncts) can sponsor in two individuals for a membership at the adjunct rate. The Adjunct member can purchase a membership for the same length of time as the sponsor's membership. Monthly Adjunct memberships are also available. The sponsor is responsible for the adjunct member's conduct. Misconduct by the adjunct member may result in the loss of membership for both parties. Guests & Self-Sponsorship: Members have the opportunity to sponsor in up to 4 guests on each visit. If a member needs to bring in more than 4 guests, please contact the Main Office at least one day in advance to make arrangements. Guests must enter/exit the facility with their sponsor and should remain with their sponsor at all times when visiting the facility. Patrons age 17+ are considered adults. Adult guests must present a photo ID at the ID station and the adult guest fee is $10.00 per guest per visit. Patrons age 16 and under are considered children. The child guest fee is $5.00 per guest per visit. Facility policies apply to all guests. Sponsors assume full responsibility for the conduct of their guests and consequences of that conduct. Patrons in the following categories may self-sponsor and purchase a daily guest pass for $10.00 per day. Students and Faculty/Staff members with red and white TTU ID Texas Tech Alumni* Government employees* UMC/HSC employees* School district employees* Military* *Patrons must show proof of affiliation with the group in addition to a photo ID. Conferences and Workshops Patrons age 17+ who are enrolled in these programs that are approved by the University Recreation Main Office may purchase a one-week pass in the University Recreation Main Office. To be eligible, presentation of a letter from the department head or some means of identification of their enrollment in the program must be shown. Pass holders must present University Recreation Conference Pass along with a photo ID in order to access the facility. Identification Cards The misuse of a TTU ID to gain facility access is a violation of university policy and will not be tolerated. All Texas Tech University IDs are non-transferable. As stated in the Code of Student Conduct, The student identification card is the property of the University. Students shall not allow their student identification to be used by other persons. Students shall not alter their student identification in any way. On request, students must present their student identification to any member of the University faculty, staff, administration or police. On request, members must present their membership identification or other legal identification to any member of the University faculty, staff, administration or police. University Recreation staff will confiscate misused cards and staff may ask individual(s) to leave the facility. Patrons involved in the misuse of an ID may have their access suspended and will need to meet with the Assistant Director – Facilities to discuss the situation. Other things to know about identification cards: University Recreation staff reserves the right to ask for additional photo ID at any time. Use of TTU IDs or Rec Center membership cards constitutes acceptance of the terms and conditions in effect at the time of use. Unauthorized use of the Texas Tech University ID card or Rec Center membership card is fraud. Report missing or lost cards immediately. Rec Center membership cards will be replaced in the Main Office at a cost of $10.00. Users wishing to gain re-admittance when they run outside must stop at North ID for a hand stamp. Tours Tours are available free of charge for individuals and groups. Arrangements should be made through the University Recreation Main Office at least 24 hours in advance. Conduct in the Student Recreation Center All participants are expected to play according to the rules of the University Recreation Department and Texas Tech University Regulations. University Recreation staff reserves the right to penalize individuals or teams for violation of these rules. Participants who choose to follow unsportsmanlike practices, whether directed toward an opponent or staff member may be ejected from that contest and/or asked to leave the facility. Any University Recreation staff member reserves the right to eject a patron from the facility. Examples of unsportsmanlike conduct which may result in ejection and/or suspension include verbal abuse, excessive technical fouls, flagrant actions toward an opponent, flagrant actions toward an official or staff member, and fighting or inciting a fight. Alcohol and/or drug use or possession is a direct violation of University Recreation policies and the Code of Student Conduct (Section B, part 3 & 4). University Recreation reserves the right to refuse participation to any player that is suspected of being under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs. Further, any participant who engages in unsportsmanlike practices, theft, harassment, fighting, or is under the influence of alcohol/drugs shall have their case reviewed by University Recreation professional staff to determine penalties assessed and may then have their case referred to the Office of Student Conduct, EEO/IX, or Texas Tech Human Resources for further action. General Information Facility hours can be found under the “Hours” tab on the website. Hours are subject to change during holidays, interim periods, home football game days, and special events. Adjusted hours will be at least one week prior to the affected dates. University Recreation and its staff are not responsible for lost, damaged, or stolen property. Personal items are more secure when locked in a locker. Alcohol and tobacco products are prohibited at all University Recreation facilities and programmed events. Facility Policies Patrons are expected to abide by all policies enforced by University Recreation staff. Failure to adhere to policies may result in removal from University Recreation facilities. Proper attire is required in all University Recreation facilities. Shoes that leave marks on the gym floors or on racquetball courts will be prohibited from those surfaces. Bare feet are not permitted on the courts. For the safety of our patrons, closed toed shoes are required in the weight rooms and on all exercise equipment. Shirts or towels are required when exercising on any weight/cardio equipment to eliminate contact between skin and any upholstered surface. Patrons are not allowed to use personal portable speakers (ei. bluetooth speakers) to listen to their own music while working out in the facility. Please use personal headphones. All racquetball players are strongly recommended to use eye protection during play. Patrons are required to wipe down equipment after use. Footballs and Frisbees can only be used on the Indoor Soccer Court when the court is not occupied. Free Weight Room, Raider Power Zone & Texas Tech CrossFit policies Clips are required for all barbell lifts. Patrons are required to re-rack their weights. Equipment Checkout There are two ways for members to check out equipment in Equipment Issue – patrons can present their valid TTU ID/membership card or use the keypad to type in their R#. Equipment to be used by guests must be checked out by the sponsoring member. Patrons who self-sponsor to access the facility can check out equipment by providing a photo ID. The ID will be held at Equipment Issue until the equipment is returned. Patrons are responsible for the item(s) they check out. If an item is not returned, if the incorrect item is returned, or if the item is damaged, the patron will be charged to replace the item. Payment for lost or damaged equipment can be done in the University Recreation Main Office. Children cannot checkout equipment. Court Usage Open Recreation Activities Badminton: Friday at 5:30p – Sunday at closing Volleyball: Daily during open hours on Court 8. Will alternate with pickleball on the weekends based on demand. Pickleball: Fridays at 5:00p - Sunday at closing upon request Racquetball: Daily during open hours Basketball: Daily during open hours *Availability of these activities is subject to change depending on other scheduled events Aquatic Center/Leisure Pool Policies General Information General Policies No one will be allowed to swim without a lifeguard on duty. Lifeguard instructions must be followed at all times. Whenever additional rules are deemed advisable for the health and safety of the patrons, the University Recreation Aquatic Center Staff may put additional rules into effect. These rules may be written or verbal. No person without a swimsuit may enter the water. T-shirts, cut-offs, workout shorts (soccer, football, basketball etc.) will not be allowed. No person with sores, open wounds, or other evidence of skin disease shall use the pool. No person suffering from a fever, cold, inflamed eye, nasal or ear discharges, or any communicable disease shall use the pool. Unnecessary spitting, spouting of water, roughness and rowdiness will not be permitted in the pool. Absolutely no glass containers in the facility No tobacco products or chewing gum in the facility Diving is allowed ONLY in the deep well No running, pushing, throwing, or dunking other swimmers Equipment may be checked out with proper ID. No splash dives, flips, back dives, or backward jumps off the side of the pool. No hanging on lane ropes, safety lines, volleyball net/cable and basketball goal. Children may use lap lanes and kickboards for lap swimming only, and only if proficient in swimming. Only US Coast Guard approved Lifejackets are allowed to be used by non-swimmers. Flotation devices (such as water wings, sewn in swimsuit floats, noodles…) are not allowed. Children under 17 must be supervised by an adult AT ALL TIMES. (Supervised = in the same area – shallow end, lap lanes, lazy river…) [Please see below for additional children's policies] All children who are not “potty trained” must wear “swim diapers” or cloth diapers covered by watertight rubber pants. (these are available for purchase in Equipment Issue) Children's Policies Parent supervision Parent must be in the water (within arm's length) with their children if they cannot touch the pool bottom with their head above water in the designated area. This area is considered to be the shallow areas (3.5 feet) in the 4 lap pool and/or lazy river. An exception to this can be accommodated with a swim test. If the child can swim across the shallow end and back (50 yards) without difficulty they may be in the pool without their parent BUT the parent must still be supervising from the deck. The supervisor will designate on the child's Rec Pass when they pass the swim test and designate the child appropriately Adults must maintain a 1:5 adult to child ratio when bringing children under 10 years old into the facility Lifejackets Must be Coast Guard approved The parent MUST be in the water (within arm's length) with the child The child must stay in the shallow areas The child can NOT go off of the diving board or slide Lazy River No horseplay on tubes No diving into the river Lifejacket wearing children must be accompanied by an adult Tube/mat riders have priority over participants standing or walking. If participants who are walking or standing are perceived as a hazard they will be asked to leave the river or become “riders”. Diving Board Only one person will be allowed on the board at a time. Wait at the bottom of the ladder until the diver is finished. One bounce per dive. Jump or dive straight off the end of the board. No dangerous stunt diving, handstands, seat bouncing, gaining inward dives, etc. Before diving, make sure the area below the board is clear and the previous diver is out of the diving area. Swimmers may not exit the diving board at the same time as someone else exits the slide. Parents and guardians will not be allowed to catch children who are jumping off the board. Swimmers will not be allowed to go off the boards unless they can successfully swim back to the side by themselves. Participants may not wear goggles or masks while going off of the diving board. Slide Riders must enter the slide in a sitting position and wait for instructions from the lifeguard stationed at the slide starter tub. Riders must lie on their backs with arms crossed across their chest at all times. No sitting or standing up while riding the slide is permitted. Do not go down the slide head first or on the stomach. All riders must be at least 48” tall. Maximum rider weight is 300 pounds. Do not pull or propel yourself into the ride No combs or foreign objects are allowed in pockets and no jewelry can be worn while riding the slide. No cutoff jeans or swim wear with exposed zippers, buckles, rivets, or metal ornamentation; only approved swim suits allowed. Only one rider at a time. Absolutely no trains or chains of riders are permitted. No tubes, mats, or life jackets are permitted on the slide. The line should form on the deck with one rider on each landing and one rider in the starter tub. Wait until landing area is clear before entering. Riders must be in good health. Elderly persons, those suffering from heart disease, high blood pressure, epilepsy, or persons using prescription medication should consult their physician before using this slide. Individuals with medical conditions including, but not limited to, pregnancy, heart, or back problems should not ride. Do not use this slide while under the influence of alcohol or drugs. No running, standing, kneeling, rotating, tumbling or stopping in the flume. Arms and hands must remain inside the flume. Riders should remain in the proper riding position until forward movement is terminated. No diving from the slides. Leave the plunge pool promptly after entering. Non-swimmers not permitted on or in the slide. Warning: Deep water. Rider assumes all risk of injury due to misuse of the slide or failure to follow these rules. Participants may not wear goggles or masks while going off of the slide. Food Policies All food must stay on the tables and chairs. Only drinks in plastic containers with “screw top” lids may be used in designated “wet areas”, including hot tub and wet decks Coolers and glass containers are not allowed into the facility Fitness and Wellness Massage Therapy Policies Massage sessions are by appointment only, unless otherwise approved by the massage therapist on duty All appointments are made in the Fitness/Wellness Center or by calling 742-3828 (Appointments by phone MUST pay with a credit card) Payment must be made when scheduling appointment All appointments must be made at least two days or 48 hours in advance, unless otherwise approved by the massage therapist on duty Please arrive 15 (10 for returning clients) minutes before your scheduled session in order to receive a full massage Therapist has right to cancel any appointment if client is 20 or more minutes past the massage start time. A 48-Hour cancellation/reschedule notice is required Refunds are not guaranteed and are subject to a 10% processing fee. Receipt must be presented upon request of refund. Massage punch card must be punched on the day and time of appointment and expires one year after the date of the first appointment. Other important information: Techniques to be used may include Swedish, Deep Tissue, Trigger Point, Hot Stone, Reflexology, Joint Range of motion techniques and stretches Body parts to be massaged include the face, neck, shoulders, back, arms, buttocks, hip flexors, legs (front and back), pectorals, abdominals, ribs, and feet. The massage therapist WILL NOT engage in breast massage. Genitals are always EXCLUDED. Standard draping will be used, meaning only the body part being massaged will be exposed Personal Training Policies To sign up with a trainer, you must register in the Fitness/Wellness Center. Once you register, your trainer will contact you via email or phone within 2-3 days. There are no penalties if session cancellations are made at least 24 hours in advance for personal training session, fitness assessment or body composition appointments. You may contact your trainer directly or call 742-3828 to cancel your appointment. Failure to show up to a scheduled appointment or tardiness of 10 minutes or more will result in forfeiture of one appointment or session. All sessions must be used during the semester in which they were purchased. Exceptions are made only for medical reasons or for those purchasing a 24-Sessions Package or 32-Sessions Package. To request an exception you must contact Kami White-Waden, 742-3828. All unused sessions will be forfeited. Remember to bring a towel to each training session. Only University Recreation employed trainers are allowed to train clients in any Texas Tech University Recreation facility. RaiderX and X2 Policies RaiderX classes are offered to all eligible Rec members for free. Children under 12 are not allowed in any classes. Children ages 12-16 must be accompanied by a parent/guardian who is a Rec member. Please arrive on time, doors open 10 minutes before class begins...class size is limited until all equipment is full. Entrance after 10 minutes of the start of class will not be allowed due to missing the warm-up. Please wear athletic attire when attending fitness classes. Come prepared to have fun! RaiderX2 classes are offered to all eligible Rec Center members for a minimal charge. Pre-registration and payment is in the Fitness/Wellness Center. NO REFUNDS WILL BE GIVEN. There is a $2 transfer fee to switch classes (plus any additional cost of the class). $5 daily passes are also available to try classes out in the Fitness/Wellness Center. Must purchase hand wraps ($6) for Boxing Techniques classes. Heart Rate straps ($8) are available for purchase for Spin classes. All purchases will be made in the Fitness/Wellness Center. Spin and Mind/Body PASS is nonrefundable, replaceable, or transferable. Come with a positive attitude, open mind, and a smile on your face! University Recreation Address Texas Tech University, Box 42151, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.3351 Email urec@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 4, 2022 2:19 PM University Recreation Hours Programs University Recreation Back Aquatics Fitness and Wellness Sport Programs Outdoor Pursuits Summer Youth Programs Memberships Facility Information University Recreation Back Aquatic Facilities Facility Rental Information Student Rec Center West Rec Turf Field Complex Parking Parking During Basketball Games Rentals/Reservations Employment About Us University Recreation About Us Back Professional Staff University Recreation Mission and Vision Policies Giving and Scholarships Contact Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index