[^] Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Clinicians EHS Professionals Academics Executives Gov Employees More FAQs Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Attendee Portal Login Harvard Chan Home Division of Policy Translation and Leadership Development Programs for Individuals Programs for Organizations News & Resources Request Information About ECPE Executive and Continuing Professional Education > About ECPE Programs for Individuals Custom Programs for Organizations Creating High Impact Tools to Improve Clinical Effectiveness Improving Health Care Performance Using Lean and the Theory of Constraints Optimizing Value Based Care: Advanced Strategies for Population Health Management Using Evidence-Based Nutrition Science: Achieving Healthier Organizations and Communities Frequently Asked Questions Faculty Directory About ECPE We provide executive education and continuing education courses that encourage leadership development and provide the knowledge and skills you need to improve organizational performance. Our portfolio of executive education programs and continuing education courses cover topics including leadership, management, research improvement and innovation, public health education, environmental health and safety, nutrition, health policy, and organizational strategy. Our Mission The overarching mission of Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health is to advance the public’s health through learning, discovery, and communication. The Center for Executive and Continuing Professional Education translates faculty research and experience into intensive, applied continuing education courses to help leaders across industries address critical challenges in public health and health care. ECPE has designed, developed, and delivered executive education courses around the globe, with over 60,000 alumni. Program Participants Your fellow continuing education participants are an integral part of your learning experience, offering valuable insight to overcome the challenges you face daily. You will learn alongside talented leaders from diverse functions and industries from around the world. You will leave Harvard having developed a global network of leading peers you can rely on for guidance as you return home and implement what you learned. ECPE Participant Industry Mix Hospitals, Clinics, and Hospital Systems – 20% Academic Institutions – 9% Pharmaceuticals– 4% Other – 67% ECPE Participant Geographical Mix North America – 63% Europe & Central Asia – 14% Latin America and the Caribbean – 11% East Asia and Pacific – 5% Middle East and North Africa – 4% Sub-Saharan Africa – 2% South Asia – < 1% Contact Us Thank you for your interest in the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Executive and Continuing Professional Education. Please note, the addresses listed below are for the administrative offices. For location of our events, visit the corresponding program page. Phone: 617.432.2100 Fax: 617.432.2242 Email: contedu@hsph.harvard.edu Address: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Executive and Continuing Professional Education (ECPE) 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115-6096 USA Address for overnight delivery and packages only: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Executive and Continuing Professional Education (ECPE) 90 Smith Street Boston, MA 02120 USA Inside Health This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Program Topic Areas Include Architecture, Design, and Construction Culture of Health Emergency Planning and Management Environmental Health and Safety Health Information Technology Health Policy & Organizational Strategy Health, Well-being, & Nutrition Hospital and Health Care Administration Leadership & Management Occupational Health and Safety Outcomes Research Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology Project Management Public Health Education Radiation Safety and Protection Research Improvement & Innovation Risk Communication and Analysis Uncategorized Harvard Chan Executive and Continuing Professional Education on Twitter Explore topics such as #ergonomics, ventilation, and noise reduction in Comprehensive Industrial Hygiene, taking pl… https://t.co/BdNZzmA9ty As @HarvardChanSPH celebrates its graduates this week at commencement, we wanted to share some recent photos of ECP… https://t.co/1Nmyyb0gCA Only 10 days left to enroll in Leading in Health Systems! Register today to gain the knowledge and tools needed to… https://t.co/NsXlA6vXOI Curious about Measurement, Design, and Analysis Methods for #HealthOutcomesResearch? Download the program brochure… https://t.co/nDTX26bhqf Information For: Clinicians EHS Professionals Academics Executives Gov Employees More Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Executive and Continuing Professional Education 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 617-432-2100 contedu@hsph.harvard.edu Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Harvard Chan Home Harvard University Home Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... You must be logged in to post a comment.