Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Areas of Study Art History Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Our Program Courses Offered This Year Declaring The Major or Minor B.A. in Art History degree requirements Minor in Art History Senior Honors Thesis Graduation Honors and Awards Schedule a Visit Art history trains us to make our way in a world saturated with images. It equips us to think critically about the visual culture that mediates our understanding of the past, present and future. At SMU, art history takes an interdisciplinary and intercultural approach to learning. Students work closely with faculty in small-class settings as they learn about the relationship of art to fields such as anthropology, sociology, music, dance, literature, science and engineering. Students study buildings, monuments, paintings, sculptures, prints and photographs, as well as maps, jewelry, fashion, movies, advertising and digital media. SMU is one of only two universities in the United States with fully developed curriculum on South and Central American art. SMU art history professors closely mentor their students, offering help and guidance all along the way. Faculty connections with art institutions in the U.S., Mexico, South America and Europe are strong in ways that are helpful with networking and internships; opportunities are many. Courses are designed to encourage students to question, probe and think across traditional categories and boundaries, and to move students outside their comfort zones. Off-campus opportunities include semesters abroad in Italy at an archaeological dig; May and summer-term courses on the SMU Taos campus; working alongside Hispanic cultural preservationists in Dallas; on-site seminars in Dallas; abroad programs; and more. Art History students enjoy unusually close proximity to world-class institutions such as the Kimbell Art Museum, Amon Carter Museum, Nasher Sculpture Center, Dallas Museum of Art, the renowned Meadows Museum and more. The SMU campus is located only five miles from downtown Dallas, home to the country’s largest arts district. Art History majors go on to careers in museums and galleries, as well as conservation, publishing, art law, cultural policy, urban design, teaching and non-profit management. Learn more about the undergraduate programs of study in Art History: B.A. in Art History Minor in Art History Minor in the History of Visual and Performing Arts See for yourself. Schedule your visit to the SMU Meadows Art History Department Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search