Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Things To Do » Intramural Sports » Intramural Sports Rules » 6-on-6 Volleyball Set Navigation title in component Fitness Classes Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports Intramural Sports Rules 6-on-6 Volleyball Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball 6-on-6 Volleyball Rules Any intramural policies not mentioned here may be found in the intramural handbook. Unless specifically mentioned below, intramural soccer play is governed by NFHS volleyball rules. By participating in intramural sports, the participant agrees to abide by all intramural rules and policies. 1. Sportsmanship right arrow down arrow 1.1 Following each game, each team will receive a sportsmanship rating between 0.0 and 4.0. 1.2 Any unsportsmanlike actions may be forwarded to Judicial Affairs and may include revocation of intramural sports and/or Campus Recreation privileges. Sportmanship Rating Score Player & Team Behavior 4.0 Always respectful to officials and opposing team. No complaining or arguing. Does not comment about officials’ calls. 3.0 Usually respectful to officials and opposing team. Minimal arguing or complaining about officials. Maximum one unsportsmanlike penalty issued. 2.0 Consistent dissent or disrespect to officials/opposing team. Consistent arguing and/or complaining about officials’ calls. Maximum of two unsportsmanlike penalties or one ejection. 1.0 Excessive complaining, dissent or disrespect to officials/opposing team. Contact or provocation of officials or opposing team members not inherent to the sport. Any player involved in a fight. Maximum of three unsportsmanlike penalties or two ejections. 0.0 Team and/or players are unsafe/out of control. Multiple players on team fighting. Destruction or abuse of UC property. * A team that receives a "0" rating will be suspended from competition until its captain meets with the Assistant Director or Coordinator of Intramural Sports. The team may be removed from competition. 2. Eligibility/Rosters right arrow down arrow 2.1 To be eligible for UC Intramural Sports, an individual must possess a membership to the UC Campus Recreation Center *AND* be either a current UC student (actively taking UC classes), faculty, or staff member. 2.1.1 Full time Uptown students are automatically members of the UC Campus Recreation Center. 2.1.2 Part time, co-op, branch students, and faculty/staff must purchase a membership at the Campus Recreation Center to be eligible for intramural play. For membership information please visit the Campus Recreation Center Member Services Desk. 2.2 A captain may not add players to his or her roster once playoffs have begun. 2.3 A 6-on-6 intramural volleyball team may have up to 20 people on its’ roster. 2.4 Per sport, per season, individuals may play on one (1) men’s, women’s, Greek, or open team AND one (1) coed team. 3. Players right arrow down arrow 3.1 Teams may play with up to six (6) players on the court. The minimum number of players required on the court is four (4). 3.2 Coed teams playing with six (6) or four (4) players on the court must have equal amounts of each gender on the court. Coed teams playing with five players on the court may have three (3) of one gender and two (2) of the other gender on the court. 4. The Court right arrow down arrow 4.1 Boundary lines are considered in bounds. 4.2 The following plays are considered out of bounds: 4.2.1 Any ball that contacts an antenna, or any part of the net outside the antennas (net, officials, official’s stand). 4.2.2 Any ball hit over the net, outside the antennas. 4.2.3 Any ball that strikes a wall, partition, track, out of play person or object. 4.3 A ball that strikes the ceiling is still considered playable, as long as it remains on the side of the team that last played the ball and is legally played by the same team. 4.4 A ball that strikes a basketball backboard and/or hoop will be replayed, provided a player is in reasonable position to play the ball. 4.5 It is legal to touch the center line when making a play. It is illegal to completely cross the center line with a hand, foot, or other body part. 4.6 If a ball from another court comes into the field of play, the official will immediately stop play and signal a replay. 5. Equipment right arrow down arrow 5.1 ALL JEWELRY IS PROHIBITED. Offending teams will be penalized one point (and a side-out if serving). 6. Game Timing, Timeouts, and Scoring right arrow down arrow 6.1 All matches will be rally scoring. 6.2 A match will consist of the best two (2) out of three (3) sets. The third set will only be played if necessary. 6.3 The first two (2) sets will be played to 25 points, win by two (2). However, there is a 30-point cap. 6.3.1 If a game is tied 29-29, the winner of the next point wins the set. 6.4 The third set will be played to 15 points, win by two (2). However, there is a 15-point cap. 6.4.1 If a game is tied 14-14, the winner of the next point wins the set and match. 6.5 Each team is allowed one (1) time-out per set. Timeouts do not carry over between sets. 6.6 A coin toss in the initial captain’s meeting will determine who decides serve/receive and side. 6.7 A forfeit is declared if a team does not have four (4) eligible players at 10 minutes after the scheduled game time. 6.8 Late penalties – Teams that show up late will incur the following penalties: 6.8.1 One (1) to five (5) minutes late – Opponent will receive five (5) points and win the coin toss. 6.8.2 Six (6) to nine (9) minutes late – Opponent will receive 10 points and win the coin toss. 7. Substitutions/Liberos right arrow down arrow 7.1 There is no limit to the number of substitutions allowed. 7.2 Substitutions occur only during dead balls. 7.3 Teams may elect to substitute in one of two ways.Teams may not use both methods of substitutions concurrently or switch methods mid-set. 7.3.1 Person for person – The substitute enters the same spot as the player leaving the court.The player leaving the court may only re-enter the game for the person who replaced him or her in the initial substitution. 7.3.2 Entire team rotation – Substitutes all enter the server’s position in the same order throughout the game. 7.4 There shall be no liberos. 8. Serve & Receive right arrow down arrow 8.1 A serve is contact with the ball to initiate play. The server may hit the ball with one hand, fist or arm while the ball is held, or after it is released by the server. 8.2 A serve must be contacted within 10 seconds after the official’s signal to serve, otherwise a side-out is issued. 8.3 A replay will be called if a server releases the ball than catches it or drops it to the ground. 8.4 The ball may be served anywhere behind the back line between the sidelines extended. It is illegal to step on or cross the end line before striking the ball during a serve. 8.5 Players may not block or spike a served ball completely above the height of the net. 8.6 Prior to the ball being served, all players (except the server) must be in bounds. Once the ball is served, players may move anywhere on the court. 8.7 If a ball contacts the net (inside the antennas) and lands in play on the opposing side, the ball is considered live. 9. Gameplay right arrow down arrow 9.1 Each team is allowed three (3) contacts on its side of the net. 9.2 A legal contact is a contact above a player’s waist. Contacts below the waist are illegal. No kicking is allowed. 9.3 A player may not have prolonged contact with the ball, nor may the ball visibly come to rest on the player’s hands, fingers, or any other part of the body. 9.4 Simultaneous contacts by two players: 9.4.1 On the same team - will count as one contact, and either player is allowed to hit the ball again. 9.4.2 On opposing teams (i.e. – a ball above the net) – will not count as a contact, and either player is allowed to hit the ball again, provided the ball is not completely on one side. 9.5 Multiple contacts by one player in the same attempt are permitted: 9.5.1 When the first ball over the net rebounds from one part of the player’s body to one or more other parts in one attempt to block. 9.5.2 On any first team hit, whether or not the ball is touched by the block. 10. Attacking & Blocking right arrow down arrow 10.1 An attack is any action other than a block or a serve that directs the ball toward the opponent’s court. A team’s third hit is always considered an attack 10.2 A block is the action of a player(s) close to the net that deflects the ball coming from the opponent by reaching higher than the top of the net at the moment of contact. 10.2.1 Any player affecting a legal block may have a second hit regardless of the number of blockers 10.2.2 A simultaneous legal block of members of the same team will not count as any of the three contacts on a side. Either player may contact the ball next. 10.3 When positioned on or in front of the 10-foot line or in the air having taken off on or in front of the 10-foot line, a back row player may not contact the ball completely above the height of the net which results in a completed attack or block. 11. Net Play right arrow down arrow 11.1 Players may not contact any part of the net while the ball is in play. 11.1.1 Exception – Hair that touches the top of the net due to momentum will be allowed. 11.2 If the ball is driven into the net with such force that pushes the net into another player, the contact will not be considered illegal. 11.3 A player shall not contact a ball which is completely on the opponent’s side of the net unless the contact is a legal block. 11.4 Blocking a ball which is entirely on the opponent’s side of the net is permitted when the opposing team has had an opportunity to complete its attack. The attack is considered complete when: 11.4.1 The attacking team has completed its three allowable hits –or- 11.4.2 The attacking team has had the opportunity to complete the attack or, in the referee’s judgement, directs the ball towards the opponent’s court –or- 11.4.3 The ball is falling near the net and, in the referee’s judgement, no legal member of the attacking team could make a play on the ball. 12. Coed Rules right arrow down arrow 12.1 The net height for coed play will be midway between official men’s and women’s heights. 12.2 Players must alternate male/female in the rotation. If a team has five players on the court, three individuals of the same gender may not be next to each other in the rotation. Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top