Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Full-time MBA Admissions Home » Programs » MBA » Full-time MBA » Admissions » Admissions Menu Full-time MBA Admissions Full-time MBA Test-Optional FAQs Full-time MBA Tuition & Financing International MBA Applicants Class Profile Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Full-time MBA Admissions Process The Georgia Tech Scheller Full-time MBA program enrolls once per year and begins in the fall. The MBA admission process has two main parts: a complete program application and an admission interview. Admission is a competitive process and we carefully review all facets of your application. The information you include in your application assists our admissions committee in evaluating your potential for success in graduate studies and as a business leader. How to Apply for the Full-time Program A complete Full-time MBA application includes the online application (including an application fee and two required essays), resume demonstrating post-graduate work experience, transcript from each college/university attended, two letters of recommendation, and official GMAT or GRE scores from within the past five years (unless applying without scores under our test-optional admissions policy). Review the test optional FAQs Start your application Fall 2022 Start - Application Deadlines First day of classes will be August 22, 2022 preceded by a mandatory two-week Orientation program. Round Application Deadline Interviews** Decision Notification Deposit Deadline 1 October 5, 2021 November 4-5, 2021 November 18, 2021 January 5, 2022 2* January 5, 2022 February 17-18, 2022 March 4, 2022 April 11, 2022 3 March 10, 2022 April 8 & 11, 2022 April 19, 2022 May 10, 2022 4 May 10, 2022 May 20, 2022 May 27, 2022 June 15, 2022 Fall 2023 Start - Application Deadlines The Fall 2023 application will become available by August 1, 2022. First day of classes will be August 21, 2023 preceded by a mandatory two-week Orientation program. Round Application Deadline Interviews** Decision Notification Deposit Deadline 1 October 12, 2022 November 3-4, 2022 November 18, 2022 January 6, 2023 2* January 5, 2023 February 24 & 27, 2023 March 3, 2023 April 17, 2023 3 March 9, 2023 April 14 & 17, 2023 April 21, 2023 May 15, 2023 4 May 4, 2023 May 19, 2023 May 26, 2023 June 15, 2023 Note: All applications will be reviewed for merit-based funding. The majority of funding will be awarded to those who apply in rounds one and two. *International applicants are encouraged to apply by round two. **Interviews are by invitation only. Academic Credentials We welcome applicants with accredited 4-year bachelor's degrees from all academic backgrounds. While the MBA core courses move at a fast pace, they do not assume previous business coursework. Transcripts from your undergraduate and any additional graduate enrollment must be provided. You may upload unofficial copies for initial review, but an official admission invitation will not be extended until official transcripts have been received and processed by Graduate Studies. Work Experience and Resume Students who have at least two to three years of post-graduate, full-time work experience before starting the Full-time MBA Program will have more success in the admission process, classroom, and internship and job placement. The average student enrolled in our Full-time MBA Program has approximately five years of post-graduate work experience. Applicants will be required to submit an up-to-date resume. Your post-graduate work experience and other leadership or community experiences you choose to highlight will be considered in the application review process. Undergraduate students in the U.S. are encouraged to consider our MBA Early Admission for Undergraduates deferred acceptance program. Essays There are three required essays and one optional essay on the "MBA supplemental" tab of the application that will appear when you select our program. Why an MBA and why Georgia Tech? (Required) Describe how your experiences, both professional and personal, have led you to the decision to pursue an MBA at Georgia Tech. 2,000 character maximum (including spaces). Short- and long-term career goals (Required) Discuss your short- and long-term career goals and how Georgia Tech is best suited to help you achieve your goals. 2,000 character maximum (including spaces). Ten facts (Required) List 10 facts about yourself that will help your future classmates get to know you. 2,000 character maximum (including spaces). Optional essay The admissions committee believes that the required essays address issues that help us learn about you and understand your candidacy for the MBA program; however, you may provide us with any additional information pertinent to your admission that has not been previously covered in the rest of the application. Feel free to discuss any unique aspects of your candidacy or any perceived weaknesses. 2,000 character maximum (including spaces). GMAT or GRE Scores Official GMAT or GRE scores are valid for five years, and we accept your highest overall score. Refer to the chart above for specific deadlines to plan your test dates. The Full-time MBA program offers a test-optional admissions path for applicants who do not have test scores or do not wish to disclose test scores in the application. Review the test-optional FAQs for more information Online testing opportunities are being offered for select countries in response to world-wide operational challenges with Covid-19 outbreak. To learn more visit the following pages: GRE online testing information GMAT online testing information Use the following codes to submit scores directly to Georgia Tech: GMAT: Institute code for the Full-time MBA program is HWK-54-37 GRE: Institute code is 5248 We typically receive your official scores in about a week. Visit the official GMAT and GRE Websites for more information on scheduling and preparing for your exam. Letters of Recommendation Two professional letters of recommendation are required with the application. The Full-time MBA online application includes the option to add up to three recommenders, however, only two recommendations are expected for the MBA application. The admissions committee requests one of your recommendations come from your current or former manager. As soon as you send a recommendation request within the online application, an email will be sent directly to the recommender. The email will include instructions on how to complete the online letter of recommendation. To ensure receipt of the email, please inform each recommender prior to submitting the recommendation requests. The Full-time MBA program also accepts the Common Letter of Recommendation (LOR) posted on the GMAC website. When your recommenders receive the email asking for their recommendation, they can upload the Common LOR as part of the recommendation. Application Fee An application fee must be paid online with a credit card or e-check if you have a U.S. bank account. The application fee is $75 for U.S. applicants and $85 for international applicants. Application fee waivers are available for U.S. military, Management Leadership for Tomorrow (MLT) Fellows, and Forté MBA Launch participants. Contact to request a waiver. Admissions Interview Admission interviews are by invitation only. If you are selected for an interview, an admissions representative will contact you to schedule. Interviews give you a chance to discuss your potential contributions to the classroom and emphasize your interest in the MBA program. They also provide an opportunity for you to get a better feel for the MBA program and how it may help you achieve your goals. We listen to your career aspirations and have a very open dialogue with you about reaching your goals through our program. Full-time MBA applicants may interview with both Admissions and Career Services staff member and a current MBA student. Interviews may be virtual or in-person. Admissions Decision Submitting a complete application by one of the round deadlines guarantees that you will receive an admission decision via email by the decision date for that round (listed in the chart on this page). International Applicant Requirements Additional information about Full-time MBA requirements for international applicants can be found here. Financing Your Degree Graduate school is an investment towards your future. When making any important financial decision, you should weigh your total cost against the expected return on investment. Learn more Class Profile Gain multiple viewpoints and start to think more strategically about the global economy through diversity in the classroom. Learn more Meet Us Attend an upcoming event, request a personal 1:1 consultation, or chat with a current student or alumni of the program. Learn more FAQs We have compiled a selection of the Georgia Tech Full-time MBA FAQs that prospective students most commonly ask. Learn more Request More Information Thank you for requesting more information about our programs. In the meantime, access our online brochures filled with helpful information about our MBA programs. Full-time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Take action Request More Info Attend an Info Session Meet Us Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures