Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Menu Main Nav Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Contact Back Back Close About Overview Diversity & Inclusion Contact Dean of Law School Search Academics & Research Overview Accreditation Information Assessment BCPEP Grants and Awards University Council on Teaching Tam/Tame Details University Fellowships Committee Undergraduate Research Support Fellowships and Scholarships Fulbright U.S. Student Program Events Faculty Openings Faculty Resources Overview Faculty Annual Report Guide Faculty Recruiting Expense Reimbursement Guidelines Sabbaticals New Faculty Information New Faculty Moving Expenses Faculty Openings Documents & Reports Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Academics & Research University Fellowships Committee Fellowships and Scholarships University Fellowships Committee Undergraduate Research Support Fellowships and Scholarships Fulbright U.S. Student Program Events Fellowships and Scholarships Undergraduate Scholarships Postgraduate Scholarships Study Abroad Funding Fellowships & Internships Barry Goldwater Scholarship The Goldwater Scholarship Program, one of the oldest and most prestigious national scholarships in the natural sciences, engineering, and mathematics in the United States, seeks to identify and support college sophomores and juniors who show exceptional promise of becoming this Nation’s next generation of research leaders in these fields. The characteristics the Foundation seeks in a Goldwater Scholar include strong commitment to a research career in the natural sciences, mathematics, and engineering; effective display of intellectual intensity in the sciences, mathematics, and engineering; potential for a significant future contribution to research in their chosen field. Ernest F. Hollings Scholarship The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Ernest F. Hollings scholarship program is designed to increase undergraduate training in oceanic and atmospheric science, research, technology, and education; increase public understanding and stewardship of the ocean and atmosphere and improve environmental literacy; recruit and prepare students for public service careers in natural resource and science agencies at the federal, state, and local levels; recruit and prepare students for careers as teachers and educators in oceanic and atmospheric science. Harry S. Truman Scholarship The Truman Scholarship is the premier undergraduate and graduate fellowship in the United States for those pursuing careers as public service leaders. The Truman Scholarship Foundation seeks applicants hoping to be a future “change agent” that improves the way government agencies, nonprofit organizations, or educational institutions serve the public and who want to work in government, nonprofits, education, or public advocacy. Morris K. & Stewart L. Udall Scholarship The Udall Foundation awards scholarships to college sophomores and juniors for leadership, public service, and commitment to issues related to Native American nations or to the environment. A-G Beinecke Memorial Scholarship The Beinecke Scholarship is an endowment that provides substantial scholarships for the graduate education of young men and women of exceptional promise. The program seeks to encourage and enable highly motivated students to pursue opportunities available to them and to be courageous in the selection of a graduate course of study in the arts, humanities and social sciences. Churchill Scholarship The Churchill Scholarship and Kanders Churchill Scholarship provide funding to American students for a year of Master’s study at the University of Cambridge, based at Churchill College. The program was set up at the request of Sir Winston Churchill in order to fulfil his vision of US–UK scientific exchange with the goal of advancing science and technology on both sides of the Atlantic, helping to ensure our future prosperity and security. Michel David-Weill Scholarship The Michel David-Weill Scholarship carries a monetary value of $80,000 and covers the cost of tuition and living expenses during a two-year master’s program at Sciences Po. The Michel David-Weill Foundation created this scholarship to encourage exceptional American students to pursue their graduate education at Sciences Po, an international research university which specializes in the social sciences and offers multidisciplinary programs taught in English and French. The scholarship is awarded each year to one American student who exemplifies the core values embodied by Michel David-Weill: academic excellence, leadership, multiculturalism, tolerance, and high achievement. Ford Foundation Fellowships Through its program of fellowships, the Ford Foundation seeks to increase the diversity of the nation’s college and university faculties by increasing their ethnic and racial diversity, maximize the educational benefits of diversity, and increase the number of professors who can and will use diversity as a resource for enriching the education of all students. Predoctoral, dissertation, and postdoctoral fellowships are awarded in a national competition administered by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine on behalf of the Ford Foundation. J. William Fulbright Scholars Program The Fulbright U.S. Student Program provides grants for individually designed study/research projects or for English Teaching Assistant Programs. During their grants, Fulbrighters will meet, work, live with and learn from the people of the host country, sharing daily experiences. The program facilitates cultural exchange through direct interaction on an individual basis in the classroom, field, home, and in routine tasks, allowing the grantee to gain an appreciation of others’ viewpoints and beliefs, the way they do things, and the way they think. Through engagement in the community, the individual will interact with their hosts on a one-to-one basis in an atmosphere of openness, academic integrity, and intellectual freedom, thereby promoting mutual understanding. Gates Cambridge Scholarship Each year Gates Cambridge offers full-cost scholarships to outstanding applicants from countries outside the UK to pursue a full-time postgraduate degree in any subject available at the University of Cambridge. The Gates Cambridge mission is to build a global network of future leaders committed to improving the lives of others. It aims to achieve this mission by selecting outstanding scholars, providing them with financial and non-financial support at one of the world’s leading universities and facilitating community building at and beyond Cambridge. H-N Fannie & John Hertz Fellowship The Hertz Fellowship provides financial and professional support for the nation’s most promising graduate students in applied physical and biological sciences, mathematics, or engineering. Applicants should intend to direct their studies toward understanding and solving major, near-term problems facing society. Harriett G. Jenkins Fellowship The NASA Harriett G. Jenkins Predoctoral Fellowship Project aims to increase the U.S. talent pool of underrepresented groups, including women, ethnic minorities, and persons with disabilities who receive Master's and Doctoral degrees participating in the STEM workforce. Lilly Graduate Fellowship The Lilly Graduate Fellows Program supports, during the course of their graduate education, exceptionally well qualified young people who have bachelor degrees from Lilly Fellows Program Network Schools, and who are interested in becoming teacher-scholars at church-related colleges and universities in the United States. James Madison Memorial Fellowship The James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation offers James Madison Graduate Fellowships to individuals desiring to become outstanding teachers of the American Constitution at the secondary school level. George C. Marshall Scholarship Marshall Scholarships finance young Americans of high ability to study for a degree in the United Kingdom. Up to fifty Scholars are selected each year to study at graduate level at an UK institution in any field of study. As future leaders, with a lasting understanding of British society, Marshall Scholars strengthen the enduring relationship between the British and American peoples, their governments, and their institutions. National Institutes of Health Graduate Partnership Program The National Institutes of Health Office of Intramural Training & Education (OITE) hosts the Graduate Partnerships Program (GPP), which is designed to bring PhD graduate students to the NIH Intramural Research Program for dissertation research. Participants enjoy the academic environment of a university, the extensive research resources of the NIH, and the breadth and depth of the research programs of both the host university and the NIH Intramural Research Program (IRP). The goal is to create a different kind of graduate experience, one that focuses on training the next generation of scientific leaders by emphasizing communication and collaboration skills, integration of information, and interdisciplinary investigation. National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program The NSF GRFP recognizes and supports outstanding graduate students in NSF-supported STEM disciplines who are pursuing research-based master’s and doctoral degrees at accredited US institutions. O-Z Thomas C. Pickering Foreign Affairs Fellowship The Thomas R. Pickering Foreign Affairs Fellowship Program is a program funded by the U.S. Department of State, administered by Howard University, that attracts and prepares outstanding young people for Foreign Service careers in the U.S. Department of State. It welcomes the application of members of minority groups historically underrepresented in the State Department, women, and those with financial need. Based on the fundamental principle that diversity is a strength in our diplomatic efforts, the program values varied backgrounds, including ethnic, racial, social, and geographic diversity. Charles B. Rangel International Affairs Fellowship The Rangel Program is a U.S. State Department program administered by Howard University that seeks to attract and prepare outstanding young people for careers as diplomats in the Foreign Service of the U.S. Department of State. The program seeks individuals interested in helping to shape a freer, more secure and prosperous world through formulating, representing, and implementing U.S. foreign policy. The Program encourages the application of members of minority groups historically underrepresented in the Foreign Service, women, and those with financial need. Rhodes Scholarship The Rhodes Scholarship is the oldest (first awarded in 1902) and perhaps most prestigious international scholarship programme, enabling outstanding young people from around the world to study at the University of Oxford. The Scholarship is not just a financial bursary, it is a life-changing opportunity for exceptional young people with the potential to make a difference for good in the world. As Selection Committees select on the basis not only of intellect, but also of character, leadership, and commitment to service, the Scholar Programme in Oxford aims to build on these Rhodes Scholar qualities. Schwarzman Scholarship The Schwarzman Scholarship is a one-year, fully-funded master’s program at Tsinghua University in Beijing, China. It is designed to build a global community of future leaders who will serve to deepen understanding between China and the rest of the world. Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowship The Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans is a merit-based fellowship exclusively for immigrants and children of immigrants who are pursuing graduate school in the United States. The fellowship is focused on identifying the most promising New Americans who are poised to make significant contributions to the nation through their work. In addition, the selection team looks for a commitment to the United States’ fundamental principles and ideals. David L. Boren NSEP Scholarship The Boren Scholarships fund study abroad by US undergraduate students in world regions critical to US interests. Boren Awards alumni are committed to public service, working in positions critical to U.S. national security throughout the Federal Government, including the Departments of State, Defense, and Homeland Security, and USAID. Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship The U.S. Department of State’s Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship Program enables students of limited financial means to study or intern abroad, providing them with skills critical to our national security and economic prosperity. McGillycuddy-Logue Travel Grants The McGillycuddy-Logue travel grants are awarded to Boston College students through the McGillycuddy-Logue Center for Undergraduate Global Studies. Established in 2008 with a generous gift from Kathleen McGillycuddy and Ron Logue, the Center promotes and fosters innovative international learning for undergraduate students at Boston College. James C. Gaither Junior Fellows Program Each year, through the James C. Gaither Junior Fellows program, the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace offers approximately 12 one-year fellowships to uniquely qualified graduating seniors and individuals who have graduated during the past academic year. They are selected from a pool of nominees nominated by several hundred participating universities and colleges. James C. Gaither Junior Fellows work as research assistants to Carnegie’s senior scholars. Pamela Harriman Foreign Service Fellowship The Pamela Harriman Foreign Service Fellowships provide funding for students interning over the summer in the U.S. Embassies in London or Paris, or the Secretary of State’s Office in Washington, D.C. William & Mary established the Pamela Harriman Foreign Service Fellowships in 2000 to inspire the best of a new generation to pursue careers in public service. FAO Schwarz Foundation Fellowship The FAO Schwarz Fellowship is an intensive, transformative two-year experience in the world of social impact The program funds paid positions at high-impact nonprofit organizations for recent college graduates with leadership potential who are interested in careers in social change. Herbert Scoville, Jr. Peace Fellowship The Herbert Scoville, Jr. Peace Fellowship, established in 1987, is a highly-competitive national fellowship program that provides recent college and graduate school alumni with the opportunity to gain a Washington perspective on key issues of peace and security. Twice yearly, the fellowship’s Board of Directors selects a group of outstanding individuals to spend six to nine months in Washington. Supported by a salary, the fellows serve as full-time junior staff members at the participating organization of their choice. J. William Fulbright Scholars Program The Fulbright U.S. Student Program provides grants for individually designed study/research projects or for English Teaching Assistant Programs. During their grants, Fulbrighters will meet, work, live with and learn from the people of the host country, sharing daily experiences. The program facilitates cultural exchange through direct interaction on an individual basis in the classroom, field, home, and in routine tasks, allowing the grantee to gain an appreciation of others’ viewpoints and beliefs, the way they do things, and the way they think. Through engagement in the community, the individual will interact with their hosts on a one-to-one basis in an atmosphere of openness, academic integrity, and intellectual freedom, thereby promoting mutual understanding. Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3260 provostoffice@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College