Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search More sites UM Alumni Association Philanthropic Giving Alumni News Get Involved Events Learn Benefits Our Stories Give About Us Get Involved Events Learn Benefits Our Stories Give About Us Search Get Involved Events Learn Benefits Our Stories Give About Us Home Education for Life MOOCs AAA MOOCs Join fellow University of Miami alumni and enroll in one of our Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs). Developed in partnership with UM’s Division of Continuing & International Education, these online certificate programs have been hand-picked for you. Flexible and available on-demand to meet your busy lifestyles, our programs will help develop and sharpen your leadership and management skills. I'm Interested! Member Login FAQ Contact us Courses Learn how to identify communicator intent across the wider world of news and media content. Learn more Plant Based Nutrition is rapidly becoming a staple diet for many around the world. This course offers a qualitative approach to understanding different diets and the best strategies to transition to a whole-food, plant-based diet. Learn more Carbon is the chemical backbone of life on earth and plays a crucial role in regulating the earth’s temperature. Learn about sustainable practices, and how to make informed choices concerning environmental issues. Learn more Cybersecurity issues affect every organization and every person, directly or indirectly. Learn to be aware of the challenges posed by cybercrime and the different options available to mitigate their effect. Learn more Coaching has emerged as a thriving profession providing highly useful tools for businesses, leaders, entrepreneurs, professionals, and those going through career or other transformational changes. Learn key coaching skills to become a better leader. Learn more Management styles can greatly impact the work environment. Learn how to strengthen your management style, or even learn a new one altogether! Learn more The field of project management continues to be a growing industry. Sharpen your skills to improve your personal and professional relationships, and become a better project manager! Learn more University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Alumni Association Newman Alumni Center 6200 San Amaro Drive, Suite 200 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2872 305-284-2872 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices