Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Campus & Community : Campus Safety & Security Resources Campus Safety & Security Resources University of Texas Police Department Emergency: 911 Report a Crime: 512-471-4441 Student Emergency Services 512-471-5017 Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) 512-232-5050 Counseling and Mental Health Center Crisis Line 512-471-2255 Austin Travis County Integral Care Crisis: 512-472-4357 Main: 512-447-4141 Victim's Advocate Network 512-232-9699 SURE Walk 512-232-9255 UT Night Rides Learn More Employee Assistance Program (EAP) 512-471-3366 Safety Resources University of Texas Police Department For Emergencies: Dial 911. Police Department Office: 512-471-4441. The University of Texas Police Department is committed to upholding its mission to serve and protect. In addition to typical policing services, it provides comprehensive community-oriented resources on crime prevention, sexual assault, campus safety and much more. Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL): 512-232-5050 BCCAL, 512-232-5050, is a 24-hour/seven-days-a-week advice line, providing students, faculty and staff an opportunity to discuss their concerns about another individual's behavior. Trained staff members will assist callers in exploring available options and strategies, along with providing appropriate guidance and resource referrals. SURE Walk Use SURE Walk, a student-run volunteer group that provides walks to and from campus to students, faculty members and staffers. Phone: 512-232-9255. UT Night Rides UT Night Rides provides a Lyft away from main campus to your home seven days a week from midnight to 4 a.m. LiveSafe at UT Austin LifeSafe at UT Austin is a free mobile app that gives the UT community immediate access to police dispatch via text. Users can also submit photos and videos directly to officers. Mental Health and Wellness Resources Counseling and Mental Health Center (CMHC) CMHC helps students with their personal concerns so they can meet the daily challenges of student life, providing helpful resources, short-term individual counseling, psychiatric services and group counseling. Counseling and Mental Health Center Crisis Line: 512-471-CALL (512-471-2255) The Crisis Line is a confidential service that offers UT Austin students the opportunity to speak with trained counselors about urgent concerns. Counselors are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. HealthPoint Employee Assistance Program Find counseling services for staffers and faculty members through the HealthPoint Employee Assistance Program. University Ombuds Free and voluntary confidential resource to listen to student, faculty, and staff concerns and identify solutions. Campus Resources and Programs Report Violence, Misconduct, Harassment, or Discrimination Learn about the reporting process, support services available, and your options. BeVocal BeVocal, the Bystander Intervention Initiative of The University of Texas at Austin, empowers individual Longhorns to prevent high-risk behavior or harm and create a culture of caring for each other's well-being. Victim's Advocate Network: 512-232-9699 The Victim's Advocate Network (VAN) is a 24/7 on-call network that responds at the request of UT police officers. VAN provide Mental Health First Aid and linkage to the appropriate campus or community resources for ongoing support. Emergency Call Boxes The University of Texas Police Department (UTPD) maintains more than 120 outdoor emergency phones all across campus. Pushing the call button on these phones connects directly with the UTPD, automatically pinpointing the caller's location. Campus Safety Campus Safety analyzes, prepares for, protects from, and responds to potential hazards and safety risks in order to promote the safety and continuity of the university environment and operations. Environmental Health and Safety Environmental Health and Safety promotes the safe operation of research labs and other facilities on campus for the protection of faculty, staff and students. Fire Prevention Services Fire Prevention Services directs a comprehensive program of inspection, prevention, plan review and public education designed to minimize risk and maximize campus safety. Hazing Hazing threatens the safety and wellness of our students, and is not accepted or tolerated on our campus. The Office of the Dean of Students investigates and responds to hazing incidents and also provides resources to help students identify, avoid and prevent it. Student Emergency Services Assists students, and in some cases their families and friends, during a personal emergency or crisis. It also administers the campus-wide Behavior Concerns Advice Line (BCAL) and the Student Emergency Fund. Voices Against Violence Voices Against Violence transforms the campus community by addressing issues of interpersonal violence. Their dynamic programming increases safety, cultivates support and promotes student growth regarding issues of relationship violence, sexual violence and stalking. Connect with UTPD Facebook Twitter Information and Initiatives Emergency Information Campus Safety 2016 Annual Security and Fire Safety Report (PDF) Report on Campus Security Initiatives Campus Carry Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022