HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation ABOUT CSL&E ACCEPTED STUDENTS Welcome Week Orientation Orientation Ambassadors CURRENT STUDENTS Leadership and Service Student Organizations Student Involvement FAMILY PROGRAMS FACULTY & STAFF COMMUNITY MEMBERS Student Orgs Home Organization Resources Student Organization Category List Student Organization Consultants Tiger Prowl How to Find Involvement Opportunities How to Start a Student Organization Advisor Resources Contact How to Find Involvement Opportunities We understand that starting at a new school or even transitioning to a new stage in your time at Clemson can be overwhelming, and while you know you want to find somewhere to get involved, it's normal to not know how to get involved. That's where we come in! Our office can help you Take PlaceFinder! PlaceFinder is a quiz that was created specifically to compare your interests and values to match you to possible involvement opportunites at Clemson! Once you take the quick quiz at bit.ly/placefinder, you are automatically sent an email with your results. If you'd like help interpreting your results or taking the next step, consider scheduling a consultation with us. Schedule a 1-on-1 meeting with a student organization consultant You can schedule a consultation with the CSLE through the student organization consultants to help you take that next step in joining or even creating a student organization, finding a CI, starting research, serving your community through volunteering, and even multiple of these! Explore TigerQuest TigerQuest is your online gateway to involvement with student organizations at Clemson University. Once you log into TigerQuest, you can browse over 500 student organizations to find ones with interests and values you’d like to explore. You may access TigerQuest if you are a Clemson University student, faculty, staff or alumni with a valid CUID. Visit tigerquest.clemson.edu. Log in to Your Account Go to tigerquest.clemson.edu Login using your CUID and password. Update your user profile. Enter your information. You can upload a picture of yourself and your privacy settings. Click “Organizations” at the top of the TigerQuest Page. Search through the over 500 registered student organizations. Join Student Organizations You may request to join a student organization from their page on TigerQuest. We also suggest showing interest by messaging their leadership and requesting to attend a meeting. Some organizations may recruit new members only at the beginning of the year, but many are happy to welcome new members any time during the year! If you see a page without a "Join" button, it means that the page belongs to a campus department, like the Center for Student Leadership & Engagement or Gantt Multicultural Center. You can join any of their public events and email the leaders in the roster to see how to get involved with the department as well! Attend Events TigerQuest also has a list of events open to students and organizations on the front homepage. Which events can you visit to learn more about organizations that interest you? Organizations may also include their events on the TigerQuest homepage to gather greater attendance or publicize their organization to the wider student community. Track Your Involvement TigerQuest’s Co-Curricular Transcript can help you track your involvement at Clemson. You can use your Co-Curricular Transcript to update your resume and build your Clemson legacy. Organizations can allow events to show on attendee’s Co-Curricular transcript, which can include service events, trainings and much more. Visit Tiger Prowl Tiger Prowl is an annual involvement fair open to all Clemson University students. Tiger Prowl helps students explore new ways to get involved with the over 500 registered undergraduate and graduate student organizations. Organizations range from athletics and sports, sororities and fraternities, service organizations, academic organizations and much more! Make plans to experience the wonder of Tiger Prowl to find a student organization or volunteering opportunity in the community, or by tabling with your student organization! Visit Tiger Connect Tiger Connect is a small-scale involvement fair that seeks to connect people to people. In 15-minute conversations, students will meet with three department/office representatives to discuss their interests, values, and potential areas of concern to find involvement opportunities to increase their sense of belonging at Clemson. If you are a first-year, transfer, Bridge, international, first-generation or historically underrepresented student at Clemson, Tiger Connect will directly match you with people that can help you in your transition to Clemson. If you're not sure where to start, or want to learn more about an involvement opportunity, email us at CSLE@clemson.edu. We will be happy to connect you with involvement opportunities that reflect your values and interests. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster