SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Home At SMU Cox Global Programs Global Programs Business is global, and so business leaders need firsthand knowledge of the international marketplace. That's why immersive international learning is core to the SMU Cox curriculum. Through your global program, you'll learn how shifting forces shape and reshape economies across the globe. And you'll gain an understanding of other countries’ business customs and cultures. Whether it's studying abroad, embarking on a professional development trip or participating in the Cox Global Leadership Program, you'll gain an international edge that will make you both competitive and ready to do business anywhere. Jump To A Section Full-Time MBA: Global Business Leaders Built Here Professional and One-Year MBA: Short-Term Trips That Fit Your Schedule Executive MBA: Get Close, Give Back MSA How London Gets Business Done BBA Explore the World Your Way Full-Time MBA: Global Business Leaders Built Here Global Leadership Program The Cox Global Leadership Program is a mandatory year-long immersion that culminates in an expenses-paid multi-day trip touring a region's corporate headquarters and meeting C-level executives. Thanks to the extensive Cox alumni network, it's an experience you can't get anywhere else. Exchange programs You can live and study in the country of your choice for a semester, focusing on the complexities and opportunities of a global economy. SMU Cox has partnered with the world's finest business schools to offer this exchange program. Learn more about the GLP and exchange programs Professional and One-Year MBA: Short-Term Trips That Fit Your Schedule Experience how business is done abroad through the immersive International Study Program. Cox offers multi-day intensive credit courses in the winter, spring and summer to accommodate professional schedules. Through class lectures, company visits, and meetings with business leaders and government officials, you'll be exposed to the nuances of other countries’ business customs and cultures. Recent trips include visits to Buenos Aires, Paris and Copenhagen. Learn more about PMBA and One-Year MBA Global Programs Executive MBA: Get Close, Give Back Get a close-up view of other countries' business mechanics while you expand your understanding of the cultures. Through two multi-day trips that include face time with high-level executives and interactions with government officials, you'll immerse yourself in different economic, political and cultural environments. On each trip, you'll also do a community service project — a great way to give back and get close at the same time. Students most recently traveled to Lima, Peru and Santiago, Chile. Learn more about EMBA international study MSA How London Gets Business Done Gain international experience through a professional development trip to London. You'll tour business offices and cultural landmarks, and get exposure to one of the world's most important global business hubs. BBA Explore the World Your Way Study and work You can get a global perspective as a BBA through a semester away or an internship overseas. "There's a large difference between vacationing and studying abroad," Evan Webb, BBA '19, says of his study abroad experience. "I truly felt immersed in a culture." Richter Fellowship This grant funds honors students to do independent research abroad on a topic that has international dimensions. Recent grantees have explored Ethiopia, Vietnam and Kenya, where a student studied micro-financing among the Maasai. Read about the Richter Fellowship Information and Application. SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter