Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF EDUCATION COLLEGE OF EDUCATION EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 EDPSY 302 Child Development and Learning (5) I&S Uses readings, discussions, naturalistic observations, and "virtual" children to understand the different ways children develop - physically, cognitively, social-emotionally, in language and literacy, and in approaches to learning - during early childhood, the interplay between each of these domains and the environmental context, and the theories about the developmental mechanisms underlying these changes. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 302 EDPSY 305 Applied Child Development and Learning (5) I&S Examination of the latest research on brain development in early childhood and the application of this knowledge in the creation of learning environments that promote physical, language, cognitive, social, and emotional development. The roles of family, classroom, and community provide context to build relationships that support each child's development. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 305 EDPSY 380 Adult Learning and Development (5) I&S C. GLASS HASTINGS Examination of current research and practice in the field of adult education, learning, and development. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 380 EDPSY 404 Adolescent Development (5) Joe L. Lott II. Students use readings, discussion, and interview data to understand adolescent development. Discusses multiple domains of development, as well as the contextually situated nature of adolescence. Highlights implications for educators, policy makers, and others who serve the needs of adolescents throughout the course. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 404 EDPSY 405 Adolescents and Media: Challenges in the 21st Century Classroom (3) I&S Encourages students to consider classrooms of the future while reflecting on their own classroom experiences. Examines adolescents' informal use of media today, some of the ways media can affect young people, and the implications of these effects in a classroom setting. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 405 EDPSY 406 Learning and Teaching in our Changing World: Insights from Experience and Research (5) I&S Human learning in the educational setting. Cognition, development, learning, motivation, affective processes, and socialization. Emphasis on skills in influencing classroom learning and discipline. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 406 EDPSY 420 Bullying, Revenge, and Belonging: Cultural Perspectives on Social Power (4) I&S, DIV Examines theories and research on bullying, revenge, and bystander behavior with a particular focus on cultural norms. Identifies the institutional, social, emotional, and ethical characteristics and processes that support exploitive relationships, revenge and their inclusive alternatives. Practical interventions are presented and evaluated. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 420 EDPSY 471 Educational Neuropsychology (5) NW Berninger Covers brain systems underlying normal development and academic learning: sensory and motor, language, cognitive, social emotional, and executive-functions for self-regulation alone and interaction with the physical and social worlds in and out of school. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 471 EDPSY 472 Teaching Reading, Writing, and Math with Brain in Mind (5) I&S Students learn evidence-based guiding principles for designing and implementing instruction with brain in mind (developing mental worlds through other -regulated and self-regulated interactions with external physical and social environments that are multi-culturally sensitive and support learning that creates reading, writing, and math brains). Prerequisite: EDPSY 471. Instructors: Berninger Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 472 EDPSY 490 Basic Educational Statistics (3) NW, QSR Elizabeth A. Sanders, Chun Wang, Min Li, Oscar Olvera Astivia Concepts include measurement scales, central tendency, variability, sampling distributions, confidence intervals, null hypothesis significance testing (z/t/chi-square), statistical power, and simple regression and correlation. Recommended: coursework in either pre-algebra or algebra. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 490 EDPSY 499 Undergraduate Research (*) Students developing studies under this rubric should be advised that a report or a paper setting forth the results of their investigations should be regarded as a basic part of the program. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 499 EDPSY 500 Field Study I: Academic Consultation (1-3, max. 6) K. MISSALL Includes study and practice in methods of Tier II academic consultation within an MTSS framework. Prepares students to effectively work with other professionals to better meet the social-emotional and behavioral needs of students and improve the learning environment for students identified as behaviorally and academically 'at-risk'. Prerequisite: EDSPY 554. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 500 EDPSY 501 Human Learning and Educational Practice (3) Systematic examination of current research about human learning in educational settings, including the study of behavioral, information processing, social construction, and the developmental perspectives on learning. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 501 EDPSY 502 Developmental Foundations of Early Learning (3) Perceptual-motor, language, and overall cognitive development in children from birth through primary-school age. Emphasis on Piagetian and Vygotskian approaches to development with a special focus on the connections between learning and development. Field-based course projects may be required. Prerequisite: EDPSY 501 or permission. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 502 EDPSY 503 Culture Learning and Development (4) M. BANG Explores influential contemporary research and theory they view culture as foundational to learning and development. Considers these issues in a range of settings (classrooms, informal environments, families, early childhood to adult learners, etc.) and within specific domains (e.g. science, literacy, mathematics. Prerequisite: EDPSY 501 and graduate status in education or psychology. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 503 EDPSY 504 Intercollegiate Athletic Leadership:Athlete and Team Wellness (3) Polo DeCano Explores the responsibility of athletics coaches to develop a team culture oriented toward the welfare of student-athletes. Discusses how psychological and physiological factors affect athlete performance and overall wellness. Explores strategies for team motivation, group cohesion, and resiliency. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 504 EDPSY 505 Field Study II: Tier III Interventions (1-2, max. 3) Individual study of an educational problem in the field under the direction of a faculty member. Prerequisite: EDPSY 557 Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 505 EDPSY 506 Instructional Theory (3) Sources, current state, and utility of prescriptive instructional theories with emphasis upon theories having a potential for guiding the design of instruction. Prerequisite: EDPSY 501 or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 506 EDPSY 507 Reading, Writing, and Arithmetic: Educational Assessment and Consultation (5) Students administer and interpret tests of reading, writing, arithmetic, and related developmental skills; integrate test, observational, interview, and portfolio information in staffings and written reports; and consult with teachers regarding educational interventions. Prerequisite: graduate standing in the school psychology specialization and permission of instructor. Instructors: Cook Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 507 EDPSY 508 Advanced Practicum in Supervision and School Mental Health (2-6, max. 20) S. KING Advanced practicum in providing in counseling, consultation, and behavioral interventions in schools while also supervising field study students in providing basic interventions. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 508 EDPSY 509 Educational Issues in Human Development (5) Human development theories and models. Educational implications of theory, methodology, and application. Current research complements the historical antecedents of current practice. Age range covered varies as function of current issues in professional literature. Prerequisite: 15 credits in educational psychology or psychology. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 509 EDPSY 510 Cognition in the Context of the School Curriculum (3) Contemporary issues and trends in human learning, with a focus on reasoning within subject-matter areas such as mathematics, history, and science. Prerequisite: EDPSY 501 or equivalent. Instructors: Bell, McCutchen View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 510 EDPSY 512 Classroom Assessment Strategies (3) Development and evaluation of traditional, observational, essay, performance-based, portfolio assessments and grading models as they are used in classroom assessment; some review of current research on classroom-based assessment; classroom assessment ethics. Prerequsite: EDPSY 490 or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 512 EDPSY 513 Survey Instrument Development (3) Oscar Olvera Astivia, Chun Wang Focuses on understanding tensions and issues involved in designing survey instruments for measuring latent constructs, including basic sampling procedures, best practices in item construction, and considerations about potential mode, method, question sensitivity, and order effects on validity of responses. Prerequisite: EDPSY 490. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 513 EDPSY 514 History of Educational Technology (3) Examines the role of technology in education through history. Early systems of instruction, advent of textbooks, models for school architecture, instructional devices and teaching machines, mediated and distance learning. Focuses on the interplay between designed educational approaches and contexts in which they were implemented, and consequent success for failure. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 514 EDPSY 515 Current Issues in Technology and Education (3) Examines current genres of learning technology, novel approaches for integrating technology into curriculum and instruction, and recent theoretical perspectives that inform future work in educational technology. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 515 EDPSY 516 Survey of Educational Technology Research (2-, max. 4) Critically examines active research projects in educational technology. Critiques of research practice. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 516 EDPSY 517 Applied Measurement in Educational Research (3) Elizabeth A. Sanders Examines typical quantitative research designs in educational research with specific regard to different kinds of validity considerations, including critical quantitative methods. Project focuses on proposal for developing, adapting, refining, or re-purposing an observed measure of a latent construct. Teaches the American Psychological Association (APA) citation style. Prerequisite: EDPSY 490. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 517 EDPSY 518 Assessment and Diagnosis of Reading Disabilities (3) Techniques for individual assessment of students with reading difficulties (K-12) including formal assessment using standard assessment tools and informal diagnostic teaching. Appropriate for classroom teachers, reading specialists, and school psychologists. Includes conducting and analyzing case studies. Prerequisite: EDC&I 460, EDC&I 462, other reading courses, or permission of instructor. Instructors: Valencia View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 518 EDPSY 520 Psychology of Reading (3) Reviews current empirical research on cognitive processes in reading, including word and sub-word processes, syntax and comprehension, reading and perception, word recognition, concept development, and meaning in reading, psychology of reading interests, and skills. Prerequisite: EDPSY 501 or equivalent. Instructors: McCutchen Credit/no-credit only. Offered: WS. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 520 EDPSY 521 Psychology of Writing (3) Examines writing as a cognitive process and reviews current empirical research on writing, emphasizing primarily studies from a psychological perspective. Explores both developmental differences and individual differences in writing skills, together with instructional implications. Prerequisite: EDPSY 501 or equivalent. Instructors: McCutchen Credit/no-credit only. Offered: WS. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 521 EDPSY 522 Teaching Reading, Writing, and Math with Brain in Mind (5) Students learn evidence-based guiding principles for designing and implementing instruction with brain in mind (developing mental worlds through other -regulated and self-regulated interactions with external physical and social environments that are multi-culturally sensitive and support learning that creates reading, writing, and math brains). Prerequisite: EDPSY 471, EDPSY 577, or permission of instructor. Instructors: Berninger Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 522 EDPSY 523 Foundations of Ethnographic Research (3) Jegatheesan Exploration of the main components of ethnographic endeavor. Students conduct ethnographic research including field entry, observing, listening, data analysis, and writing; typical issues and quandaries encountered in carrying fieldwork in a variety of settings, ethical issues, comprehension, intrusion, and access, experience and empathy, and power dynamics, and predicament. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 523 EDPSY 527 Transfer of Teaching (3) Students read and discuss a representative sample of theoretical and research papers from extensive literature on teaching to promote transfer of what students learn to non-teaching environments. Historical approach to the topic is followed by analysis of current writings on transfer. Prerequisite: EDPSY 501 and graduate status in education or psychology. Instructors: Bell, Shouse Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 527 EDPSY 528 Achievement Motivation in Education (3) Critical review of current research and major theories of achievement motivation in schools and other educational settings. Emphasis on the relationship of theories to the contexts and practice of education. Prerequisite: EDPSY 501 or permission of instructor. Instructors: Nolan Offered: WS. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 528 EDPSY 529 Developmental Psychopathology and the DSM (2) W. LAU Provides an opportunity for advanced doctoral students to learn the basics of using the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders (DSM) for assessment and diagnosis in clinical practice; and learn about childhood disorders across the lifespan. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 529 EDPSY 530 Vygotsky's Socio-Cultural Approach to Mind (5) Critical reading and discussion of the work of L.S. Vygotsky as well as contemporary psychologists and educators who have investigated cognition in social context. Discusses the implications of these approaches for the design of learning environments. Prerequisite: EDPSY 501. Instructors: Herrenkohl Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 530 EDPSY 531 Socialization of School-Age Children (3) Study of personal social development and behavior from preschool ages through adolescence. Developmental theory and research are reviewed on the socialization influences of parents and peers and on such topics as aggression, emotional regulation, and social cognition. Prerequisite: EDPSY 501 or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 531 EDPSY 532 Adolescence and Youth (3) Developmental processes and patterns examined with major theoretical and current research themes from behavioral sciences as applied to middle school and senior high students. Educational issues, social problems associated with adolescence in Western culture. Prerequisite: EDPSY 501 or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 532 EDPSY 534 School Problems of Adolescence (3) Study of the classic, contemporary, and emerging school problems of school age youth with emphasis upon problem solving strategies for educators and associated youth service personnel. Includes problems of academic achievement, interpersonal relations, and social deviancy in the schools. Prerequisite: EDPSY 532 or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 534 EDPSY 535 Education and the Highly Capable Learner (3) N. HERTZOG Examination of major issues and problems in study and nurturance of highly capable children and youth in the educational setting. Emphasis placed on contributions of theory and research to educational problem solving for multiple aspects of advanced human capacity. Prerequisite: EDPSY 501 or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 535 EDPSY 536 Immigrant and Indigenous Children: Social Context of Learning (3) Jegatheesan Focuses on the broad context of family, school, and society of immigrant and indigenous young children in the United States. Introduces the complex interplay of socio-cultural and psychological factors that impact these children's learning. Offered: WS. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 536 EDPSY 537 Teaching and Learning Science with Indigenous Students (3) Megan Bang Provides an overview of the opportunities and challenges in teaching science to Indigenous learners. Students develop relevant pedagogical frameworks to approach problems of practice and develop high-leverage instructional practices for Indigenous students. Focused on Indigenous students however is relevant to other under-achieving populations. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 537 EDPSY 538 Multiple Regression (3) Quantitative methods for students in the social, behavioral, and health sciences. Focuses on understanding, estimating, interpreting, and reporting results for univariate multiple regression models for metrical and categorical outcomes, from a frequentist perspective. Prerequisite: EDPSY 490. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 538 EDPSY 539 Classic Test Theory Reliability and Validity (3) Min Li An examination of assumptions involved in Classic Test Theory, including measurement error, factors affecting reliability and validity, item analysis, and standards for educational and psychological measurement. Prerequisite: EDPSY 538. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 539 EDPSY 540 School Psychological Assessment (5) Study of assessment of human intelligence with supervised training in the administration, scoring, and interpretation of individual intelligence tests. Prerequisite: admission to School Psychology program. Instructors: Jones Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 540 EDPSY 542 Learning Sciences and Human Development Proseminar (2) Introduction to fields of human learning, human development, and the relationship between them. Explores key readings, builds collaborative relationships, and considers possible ways to participate in Learning Sciences and Human Development professional communities. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 542 EDPSY 544 Counseling (4) James J. Mazza Competency-based skills training for beginning counseling and school psychology students. Covers attending, listening, focusing, and intervening behaviors for use with adults and children. Introduction to theories of helping. Prerequisite: admission to School Psychology program. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 544 EDPSY 546 Counseling Practicum (3-5, max. 20) J. MAZZA Supervised practice in counseling. Prerequisite: admission to School Psychology program; EDPSY 544. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 546 EDPSY 548 Child and Adolescent Psychopathology (3) Introduces students to the study of child and adolescent psychopathology in the context of educational practice, testing, and counseling. Discusses mental health issues, theories, and diagnoses and examines their expression and treatment in school settings. Prerequisite: admission to the School Psychology program. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 548 EDPSY 549 Seminar in Consultation Methods (3) Theory and practice of process consultation in educational settings. Field practice in teams with clients. Prerequisite: admission to the School Psychology program. Instructors: Cook Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 549 EDPSY 550 Family Counseling (3) Introduction to family counseling theory and practice, emphasizing family dynamics and communication analysis. Prerequisite: graduate standing in school psychology or permission of instructor. Instructors: Jones Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 550 EDPSY 551 Group and Behavioral Intervention (3) Introduction to competency-based skills for beginning school psychology students. Includes basic processes of group management skills with children including group process in social skills training, problem-solving techniques, behavioral principles, and parent training. Prerequisite: admission to School Psychology program. Instructors: Cook Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 551 EDPSY 552 Multicultural Issues in School Counseling and School Psychology (3) Examination of multicultural issues as they relate to the delivery of services provided by school counselors and school psychologists. Theoretical and applied aspects emphasized and case study format utilized. Prerequisite: admission to School Psychology program. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 552 EDPSY 553 School Psychology Services with Special Populations (3) Examines current issues in working with youth in special populations, as well as intervention strategies to help these students within the mainstream school environment. Prerequisite: admission to School Psychology program. Instructors: Murphy Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 553 EDPSY 554 Introduction to Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (3) K. MISSALL Teaches the Multi-Tiered Systems of Support framework and provides instruction on how to conduct assessment, consultation, and evaluation intervention program effectiveness using both a direct service delivery as well as an indirect model (consultation). Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 554 EDPSY 556 Applied Social Psychology: Implications for Education (3) Provides students with the knowledge and understanding of how social psychology is applied within school settings and how it can be used to help develop effective strategies for psychological services. Prerequisite: admission to School Psychology program. Instructors: Cunningham, Mazza Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 556 EDPSY 557 Tier III Interventions for School Psychologists (3) Provides school psychology students with a milt-tier framework in working with challenging students in schools. Provides explicit instruction on functional behavioral assessment, including content and training in how to work with youth who are at-risk or have engaged in self-harming and/or suicidal behavior. Prerequisite: admission to School Psychology program. Instructors: Cook, Mazza Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 557 EDPSY 558 Generalizability Theory (3) Min Li Focuses on various designs and applications used with the Generalizability theory framework to estimate the amount of score variation associated with a measurement procedure, approach the reliability and validity issues, and optimize the measurement procedure. Prerequisite: EDPSY 539; recommended: introduction to educational statistics and measurement so that students are familiar with the basic concepts and procedures that we will continue working on in this course. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 558 EDPSY 559 Validity Theory (3) Min Li Introduces students to different perspectives and theories of test validity and to the process of accumulating validity evidence for measures used in educational field. As an advanced measurement course, we will address the argument-based validation approach proposed by Kane, and analyze important technical and philosophical aspects of test validity and validation. Prerequisite: EDPSY 539; recommended: understand the concepts of reliability and validity as well as the statistical procedures used to evaluate different types of validity claims under the classical test theory framework Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 559 EDPSY 560 Advanced Practicum in Personality Assessment (3) Designed for doctoral-level school psychologists to learn advanced personality assessment for diagnosis of emotional and behavior disorders. Prerequisite: admission to School Psychology program; EDPSY 540; EDPSY 564. Open to doctoral students only. Instructors: Jones View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 560 EDPSY 561 Test Instrument Development (3) Min Li Test instrument development techniques including construct development, test and item specifications, item writing, planning for reliability and validity studies; ethics in test administration and interpretation. Intended for doctoral or master's students to develop instruments for their own research. Prerequisite: EDPSY 539. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 561 EDPSY 564 Practicum in School Psychology (1-6, max. 20) Practicum in assessment and consultation, emphasizing diagnosis of behavior and learning disabilities, and focusing on techniques acquired in EDPSY 507 and EDPSY 540. Prerequisite: admission to School Psychology program; EDPSY 507; EDPSY 540. Instructors: Jones, Lau Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 564 EDPSY 565 Advanced Practicum in Clinical Practice for Children and Adolescents with Psychopathology (4, max. 24) J. Jones Designed for doctoral level school psychologists to learn advanced skills in clinical practice for working with children and adolescents with a range of childhood psychopathologies, under the supervision of a licensed psychologist. Prerequisite: EDPSY 544 and EDPSY 546, or equivalent and advanced graduate standing in the school psychology program. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 565 EDPSY 566 Case Study Seminar (1-6, max. 20) Integrating theoretical concepts with practice/service issues. Cases selected for discussion represent a wide range of problems found in schools. Activities include group supervision and peer review. Prerequisite: graduate standing in school psychology. Instructors: Grady Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 566 EDPSY 568 Seminar in Professional Issues and Ethics (3) Professional ethics codes and cases, history of counseling or school psychology, legal problems, credentialing issues, conditions of practice, continuing education, publishing, and presenting research papers. Prerequisite: graduate standing in College of Education or permission of instructor. Instructors: Provenzano Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 568 EDPSY 569 Learning and the Interaction Order (3) K. TAYLOR Covers research methods course for students using video and/or audio recordings as data in studies of learning and teaching. Students learn how to make evidence-based inferences about people's learning or teaching as captured by video/audio recordings by content logging, selecting, transcribing, and analyzing moments of interaction. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 569 EDPSY 570 Introduction to School Psychology (2, max. 20) J. MAZZA Current issues in professional psychology practice and research. Prerequisite: admission to School Psychology program. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 570 EDPSY 571 Educating Individuals with Biologically Based Disabilities (5) Reviews the history of neural science and its interdisciplinary roots, brain imaging methods and web resources, basic terminology and concepts for microscopic and larger neurological structures, functions, organizing principles and chemical bases, with focus on application to diagnosing and teaching students with developmental, learning, psychiatric, neurological, and medical disorders. Prerequisite: graduate standing in school psychology or inst Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 571 EDPSY 572 Social-Emotional Assessment (3) Techniques in social-emotional assessment of school-aged children. Diagnostic systems presented in conjunction with assessment techniques. Emphasis on an integrative method for understanding social emotional assessment batteries and reliability and validity of their test score interpretation. Prerequisite: admission to School Psychology program. Instructors: Cunningham Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 572 EDPSY 573 Psychological Assessment of Preschool Children (5) Students learn to give and interpret tests of intellectual development to assess language, play, and social/emotional functioning, and to write psychological assessment reports for infants, toddlers, and preschoolers. Prerequisite: graduate standing in school psychology and permission of instructor. Instructors: Olson Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 573 EDPSY 575 Structural Equation Modeling I (3) Oscar Olvera Astivia Theory and data analysis using linear structural equation models. Topics include path analysis, exploratory and confirmatory latent variable factor analysis, and structural regression models to evaluate relationships among latent variables. Prerequisite: EDPSY 538. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 575 EDPSY 576 Multilevel Modeling (3) Elizabeth A. Sanders Theory and data analysis for modeling nested data with random factors, including linear and generalized linear hierarchical models for cross-sectional data as well as basic growth models. Prerequisite: EDPSY 538. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 576 EDPSY 577 Neuropsychology of Learning and Behavior Problems (5) Brings together our understanding of neuropsychology and specific behavioral and learning problems to provide a foundation for practitioners to consider neuropsychological contributors to problems observed in clinical and educational settings. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 577 EDPSY 578 Educational Applications of Neuropsychology: Assessment and Intervention (5) Students observe and administer neuropsychological tests and plan and carry out educational interventions for children with neuropsychological disorders. Content focuses on various neuropsychological disorders for which school psychologists can provide assessment and consultation. Prerequisite: EDPSY 540 or equivalent course in individual testing, and EDSPY 577 or permission of the instructor. Instructors: Berninger View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 578 EDPSY 579 Advanced Practicum in Assessment and Intervention (3, max. 18) Erin Olson Provides advanced clinical training in assessment and evidence-based interventions for children and adolescents. Training includes supervised administration of assessments and delivery of interventions with individuals and/or groups in clinic settings that provide services to children and adolescents. Prerequisite: graduate standing in School Psychology or permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 579 EDPSY 581 Seminar in Educational Psychology (1-5, max. 20) Advanced seminar on selected topics in educational psychology. A critical appraisal of current research. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 581 EDPSY 582 Seminar in Development and Socialization (3, max. 15) Advanced seminar on selected topics concerned with human development and socialization processes. Emphasis placed upon empirical research and its theoretical underpinnings in such areas as cognitive development, moral development and education, self-concept development, and related concerns. Prerequisite: graduate standing in College of Education or instructor permission. Instructors: Herrenkohl, Jegatheesan, Nolen, Kazemi View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 582 EDPSY 583 Seminar in Learning and Thinking (3, max. 15) Seminar in the psychology of learning language and language learning. Each seminar is offered with predesignated emphasis in one of the following topics: linguistics, phonology, pragmatics, psycholinguistics, semantics. Prerequisite: graduate standing in College of Education or instructor permission. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 583 EDPSY 584 Special Topics in Quantitative Methods (3, max. 9) Oscar Olvera Astivia, Chun Wang, Elizabeth A. Sanders, Min Li Seminar for special topics in quantitative methods involving psychometrics and applied inferential statistics. Prerequisite: EDPSY 538. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 584 EDPSY 585 History, Systems, and Contemporary Issues in School Psychology (3) Covers the history, systems, and research relating to the contemporary issues relevant to research and practice of school psychology. Meets APA and Washington state requirements for course in history and systems of psychology. Prerequisite: admission to School Psychology program. Instructors: Jones, Mazza Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 585 EDPSY 586 Qualitative Methods of Educational Research I (4) Survey of various qualitative research methods from a variety of disciplinary perspectives (anthropology, sociology, applied linguistics, cognitive psychology, policy analysis, and evaluation) with intensive experience in collection, analysis, and reporting of data. Prerequisite: second-year doctoral standing and one course in statistics, and permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 586 EDPSY 587 Qualitative Methods of Educational Research III (5) View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 587 EDPSY 588 Structural Equation Modeling II (3) Oscar Olvera Astivia Advanced topics in structural equation modeling, focused heavily on models for latent and manifest variables, as well as multilevel structural equation models. Prerequisite: EDPSY 575; recommended: EDPSY 576. Offered: A, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 588 EDPSY 589 Scholarly Writing in Education and Psychology (3) Introduction to the demands and expectations for technical writing in education and psychology, including aspects of the culture of scholarship. Designed for competent writers. Does not address basic grammar and composition. Prerequisite: doctoral standing, and permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 589 EDPSY 591 Item Response Theory I (3) Chun Wang Explores assumptions and applications of Item Response Theory (IRT) measurement models, testing and evaluating differential item functioning, and procedures for equating and linking. Prerequisite: EDPSY 539. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 591 EDPSY 592 Item Response Theory II (3) Chun Wang Advanced topics in Item Response Theory, including multidimensional and multilevel models. Prerequisite: EDPSY 591. Offered: W, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 592 EDPSY 593 Cognitive Diagnostic Modeling (3) Chun Wang Explores concepts and techniques for Cognitive Diagnostic Modeling (CDM). Prerequisite: EDPSY 591. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 593 EDPSY 594 Computerized Adaptive Testing (3) Chun Wang Explorers concepts and models for computerized adaptive testing (CAT). Prerequisite: EDPSY 591. Offered: Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 594 EDPSY 595 Monte Carlo Simulations (3) Oscar Olvera Astivia Methods, procedures, and assumptions involved in simulating univariate and multivariate normal and non-normal data, applying models to simulated data, saving simulation results, and assessing properties of simulated results. Prerequisite: either EDPSY 538; and graduate student standing in the Measurement and Statistics program, or permission of instructor. Offered: A, even years. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 595 EDPSY 596 Experimental Design and Analysis (3) Elizabeth A. Sanders Compares different experimental designs considering the research questions and constraints, such as population size, timing, treatment conditions and implementation procedures, expected effect size, potential for contamination and non-compliance, and ethics. Example designs include block-randomized, cluster-randomized, cohort-sequential, step-wedge, and sequential, multiple assignment, randomized trials. Prerequisite: EDPSY 576. Offered: Sp, even years. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 596 EDPSY 597 Network Measurement and Analysis (3) Elizabeth A. Sanders Covers measurement and analysis of networked data in education and related social sciences. Descriptive and inferential analysis methods explored, as well as data visualization. Prerequisite: EDPSY 576; recommended: EDPSY 513. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 597 EDPSY 598 Measurement and Statistics Pro-Seminar (1, max. 15) Elizabeth A. Sanders, Min Li, Chun Wang, Oscar Olvera Astivia Prerequisite: graduate student standing in the Measurement and Statistics program. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 598 EDPSY 599 Independent Studies in Education (*) Independent studies or readings of specialized aspects of education. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 599 EDPSY 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 600 EDPSY 601 Internship (3-10, max. 30) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: EDPSY 601 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022