Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Safety Menu Main Nav Campus Safety Contact Back Back Close About Overview FAQ BC Police Department Overview About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints Services Emergency Management Overview Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Environmental Health & Safety Overview Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Documents Overview Crime Alerts Annual Campus Security & Fire Safety Report Business Continuity Emergency Plans and Publications Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close R.A.D. Programs Home BC Police Department Community Relations & Crime Prevention R.A.D. Programs Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints About R.A.D. The Boston College Police Department is a proud member of the R.A.D. Systems international community. We provide educational opportunities for men and women, to create a safer community for themselves. In doing this, we challenge our entire community to evolve into an existence where violence is not an acceptable part of daily life. We offer two specific training sessions throughout the year, which are listed below. Rape Aggression Defense (R.A.D.) for Women The Rape Aggression Defense (R.A.D.) System is a program of realistic self-defense tactics and techniques for women. The R.A.D. Course is a FREE comprehensive, women-only course that begins with awareness, prevention, risk education, and risk avoidance. After this, the system progresses to the basics of hands-on defense training. However, R.A.D. is not a martial arts program. Our courses are taught by Boston College Police Officers who are nationally-certified R.A.D. instructors. The Rape Aggression Defense System is dedicated to teaching women defense concepts and techniques against various types of assault. This is done by utilizing easy, effective, and proven self-defense tactics. Our system of realistic defense will provide women with knowledge to make an educated decision about resistance. Our Instructional Objective: To develop and enhance the options of self-defense, so they may become viable considerations to the woman who is attacked. The R.A.D. Course consists of a free twelve hours course of instruction. This can be broken up into two days a week, two hours a day for three weeks. It can also be broken up into six hours over two days or any other configuration that works best for your group, and depending on availability of R.A.D Instructors. The course is not only informative and valuable, but you will also have a lot of fun while learning. In the last class, you will have the opportunity to use all the techniques you have learned in simulated attacks. All students and officers wear protective gear and the student uses techniques learned against the officers who play the role of "attackers." If you are interested in the class, please contact us at: RAD@BC.EDU 2020-2021 RAD Training Sessions- CANCELLED Resisting Aggression with Defense (R.A.D.) MEN Resisting Aggression with Defense (R.A.D.) is a FREE comprehensive course for men only, designed to raise awareness of the impact of aggressive behavior, recognize how aggressive behavior impacts participants’ lives, encourage participants to take steps to avoid aggressive behavior, and to look at how individuals can be part of reducing aggression and violence. Each participant will explore resisting aggression, while progressing on to the basics of hands-on defense training. The R.A.D. Course classes consists of twelve hours and are offered throughout the academic year. The course is not only informative and valuable, but you will also have a lot of fun while learning. In the last class, you will have the opportunity to use all the techniques you have learned in simulated attacks. All students and officers wear protective gear and the student uses techniques learned against the officers who play the role of "attackers." Our Instructional Objective: To provide responsible information and tactical options of self defense for men who find themsleves in confronational situations. Resources R.A.D. Team Contact Info rad@bc.edu R.A.D. Systems Website www.rad-systems.com 2020-2021 Training Schedule- CANCELLED Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Police Department Maloney Hall 617-552-4444 About BC Police Department Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Documents To report a campus emergency: Call BC Police @ 617-552-4444 In case of fire call 911 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College