Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory The Corporation of Brown University Jeffrey F. Hines The Corporation of Brown University Jeffrey F. Hines Fellow (2020-31) Jeffrey Hines is the lead gynecologic oncologist with WellStar Health System in Atlanta, Ga. He began his career in the U.S. Army Medical Corps, deploying as a battalion surgeon during operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm. He received a Meritorious Service Medal and the Southwest Asia Service Medal with two Bronze Service Stars. He completed a fellowship in Gynecologic Oncology at The Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center of Georgetown University Medical Center in 1995. Following his deployment, Hines held academic teaching positions at Texas A&M College of Medicine, Georgetown University School of Medicine, Uniformed Services University for the Health Sciences, and Morehouse School of Medicine. Hines earned a Bachelor of Science from Brown in 1983 and an M.D. from the Warren Alpert Medical School in 1986. As an undergraduate, he held leadership roles in the Third World Center, now the Center for Brown Students of Color, and the black premedical society. As a medical student, he served on the admissions committee and delivered the student address at the Medical School’s Commencement ceremony. After graduating, he served as the founding chair of the Alpert Medical School's Advancing Diversity Committee, served as a co-chair for the Atlanta area Brown Alumni Schools Committee and served on the board of trustees for the Brown Medical Alumni Association. He received Brown’s Leadership Award in 2003. Hines served as vice chairman of the board of trustees for The Lovett School, an independent K-12 school in Atlanta. He is also past president of the Board of Trustees for Fulton County’s Hammonds House Museum of African American Art and is involved in regularly scheduled medical missions to international locations including Jamaica and the Philippines. He is an avid marathon runner. About Membership Committees Statutes Charter News from Meetings Honorary Degrees Corporation Policies Corporation Policy Statement on Equal Opportunity, Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action Roles and Responsibilities of Corporation Members Corporation Members Login Here Emeriti Corporation Members Login Here Print this Page Share this Page Corporation Office Brown University Box 1887 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401.863.2409 Fax 401.863.9872 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Links Office of the President Office of the Provost Office of Faculty Governance Graduate Student Council Medical Student Senate Undergraduate Council of Students