Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Earth Sciences About Programs Faculty Research Student Resources Career Path Make a Gift Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Earth Sciences Programs Undergraduate Students About the BAMinorCoursesAdvising4 year sequence Graduate Students About the ProgramCertificatesCoursesApplication ProcessGraduate CoordinatorProspective Students GIS Certificate About Frequently Asked Questions SAGE Laboratory Testimonials Minor in Earth Sciences Take Action Apply Now! News and Colloquium Field Activities Contact Us Home Earth Sciences Earth Sciences Programs GIS Certificate FAQ Frequently Asked Questions About the GIS Certificate Select a topic to go directly to that section: Admissions | Financial | Curriculum | General Admissions I have many years of experience in the GIS field, but never completed an undergraduate degree. Can I get into the GIS Graduate Certificate Program? No, a BA or BS degree from an accredited college or university is required. I have a bachelor's degree from a university or college which is not accredited. Can I get into the GIS Graduate Certificate Program? No, a BA or BS degree from an accredited college or university is required I have taken several ESRI software training classes. Does that qualify as an introductory GIS course? No, software training by ESRI or any other vendor is not the same as a university course in the fundamentals of GIS. Is acceptance into the GIS Certificate Program competitive? Yes. We review applications in April, January and September, accepting 10 to 15 students into the program. We receive applications in the Mid-South area and nationwide. We welcome international applicants as well. We provide online GIS certificate degree and online courses. Reapplications are welcome. Financial Questions How much does it cost? You can go to the tuition estimator to find the current cost of the courses. Do you have any form of financial aid of assistantships for certificate students? Financial support at present is limited to full-time graduate students in earth sciences, not for students only enrolled as certificate students. Is there any financial support for conference registration and accommodations to present a poster at a conference? There is no funding from the Certificate Program for conferences. If you go to a conference, it will be at your own expense. There are other scholarship opportunities in the college and students are encourage to seek funding. Memphis Area Geographic Information Council (MAGIC) offers student scholarships. Curriculum Do the courses I take in the GIS Certificate Program count towards a graduate degree? You will need to check with your specific department policies for dual-counting hours to see how many credit hours you can apply to both. Do the GIS courses I take during my undergraduate degree count towards the GIS Certificate Program? No, all course work must be at the graduate level. However, we allow to substitute that course with a different graduate level GIS related course. You can apply for a credit by exam based on prior undergraduate GIS courses you took in Earth Sciences. Do my graduate degree courses count towards the GIS Certificate Program after I completed my degree requirements and graduated? If you graduated with a master's degree at UofM, took courses that are applicable to the GIS certificate program, and want to pursue the GIS Certificate after your graduation, you need to apply to the graduate school again and get accepted to the GIS certificate. You can only apply up to 6 credit hours of GIS related course work towards both. You will need to check with your specific department policies for dual-counting hours to see how many credit hours you can apply to both. Can I transfer credit from another institution? Up to 6 credits will be reviewed on an individual basis. Can I apply and graduate at the same semester if I met all the requirements of the Certificate Program? Yes, if you meet all the program requirements. What is the application deadline for the Certificate Program? Applications are assessed as we receive them. I have completed the required 12 hours of credit. Am I eligible to receive the certificate? Yes. After you take the capstone GIS project course (ESCI 7998) and execute a project, you have completed the required 12 credits and are eligible to receive your certificate. I have already graduated from the GIS Certificate Program – can I continue taking courses? All our GIS-related courses are open to non-degree students, provided they meet the prerequisites for a particular course and provided space is available in the course – certificate students and graduate students who still need a course to meet their program requirements get priority enrollment. Can I substitute 7000 level independent study for a core or elective course? This is not recommended, but applies in rare cases. For example, PhD candidates needing 7000 level courses. This can be only done if the student attends to the 6000 level course and completes the course content and does extra work to be counted to 7000 level. This must be followed by contract agreement and a letter from the professor. Do you have an internship option in the GIS Certificate Program? Yes, there are local companies and government agencies employ our certificate students. You can do an internship as part of your capstone GIS project. You can take ESCI 6700 Internship course as elective course and count your internship towards GIS certificate. Do you offer a course in GIS programming? Yes, ESCI 6610 Automation Process In GIS and ESCI 6535 Modular GIS. Once I'm accepted into the GIS Certificate Program, can I transfer into the master's in Earth Science program? The master's program has a separate application process and admission is based on different criteria. Acceptance into the GIS Certificate Program does not guarantee acceptance into the master's program. Am I required to take at least one course every term? Yes, if students skip a semester (summer does not account), they have to reapply. Can I take more than one course per term? You can take as many courses as your schedule and time allow, as long as you meet the pre-requisites for each course. Do you plan to offer any evening class? At present, most of our certificate courses are taught as daytime classes and online. Will you be offering any courses in the summer term? Yes, we offer online GIS courses in the summer. Can I specialize my certificate? Yes, we offer the Modular GIS course as an elective course where you can specialize in a GIS application specific to your discipline and interests by selecting modules (e.g., remote sensing imagery analysis, criminology, transportation, urban planning, disease mapping, etc.). We also develop standalone specialization courses, which can be taken as elective course such as GIS and Human Health course. We plan to add more online standalone specialization courses as elective every year. Below are currently available online elective offerings: 1. Modular GIS 2. GIS and Human Health 3. GIS Seminar General Questions How does this GIS Certificate Program compare to similar programs elsewhere? The GIS Certificate Program at the UofM compares very favorably to similar programs elsewhere, for several reasons: 1.The program consists of a total of 12 credit hours, which is comparable to many other programs. 2. Most courses are taught in small classes by full-time tenured and tenure-track faculty members. 3. We offer online program and courses. How does the GIS Certificate Program relate to the Certification of GIS Professionals. The GIS Certificate Program is NOT a certification program. Certification is recognition of an individual skills and experience in a particular professional field, typically carried out by a professional organization; a university therefore cannot "certify" you. Certification of GIS professionals is in the hands of the GIS Certification Institute. Completion of the GIS certificate degree and graduate level courses like the ones in the GIS Certificate Program count heavily towards GIS professional certification (GISP). If you have additional questions not answered here, contact the program director, Dr. Esra Ozdenerol, at eozdenrl@memphis.edu. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/16/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.