Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content × Close Menu Close Academics Academics Academic Programs Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Medicine Nursing Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Admissions Visiting Seton Hall Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Athletics SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now About About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet SUPPORT SHU University Site Search Academics Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Nursing Theology Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Visit Campus Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Visiting Seton Hall Admissions Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Seton Hall Pirates SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now Dual Degrees and Graduate Programs at Seton Hall While you are still a Seton Hall undergraduate, consider pursuing a dual degree or graduate program at the University. Why? A graduate degree that diversifies and complements the skills learned in your undergraduate programs will increase your ability to adapt to changing job markets, technologies and economic trends, as well as prepare you to be a lifelong learner. By pairing undergraduate and graduate coursework and degrees in different fields beyond developing skills specific to a single discipline or profession, you will be more versatile and distinct from other job applicants. A dual degree can also allow you to couple your passion with practicality, infusing your career path with a lifelong interest. Seton Hall University Academics Consider Saving Time and Money (and Earning More!) Dual degrees often count as many as four courses for both undergraduate and graduate credit, effectively giving you 24 credits for the price of 12*. While the specifics vary by program, all of the dual degrees are cheaper and faster than earning your undergraduate and graduate degrees separately. If affordability is a concern, Seton Hall offers an array of financial support. In addition to full and partial graduate assistantships, the University offers a variety of generous scholarships for accepted graduate students. Learn more about financial aid and scholarship opportunities. * Credits vary by program; consult the University course catalogue and/or contact a faculty member for details. Keep an Open Mind Your undergraduate major generally does not limit what kinds of graduate programs you can pursue. The University has dual-degree arrangements and graduate admissions criteria that enable students to articulate many different degrees across fields, disciplines and colleges. In fact, many graduate programs seek candidates with undergraduate majors that differ widely from the specific graduate field. So, keep an open mind and explore the nearly 90 graduate degree opportunities at Seton Hall. Do not assume you are unfit for any graduate degree without first speaking with a faculty member in the program. Many of the support services that are available to undergraduate students at Seton Hall — including Counseling and Psychological Services, the Writing Center, Health Services, Academic Resource Center and the Career Center — are still available to graduate students. You will also still have access to the library, 24/7 tech support and the fitness center. $62,000 Average annual salary compared to $48,000 for those with a bachelor’s* 3 Percent Unemployment rate compared to 5 percent for those with a bachelor’s* 8 Percent Americans holding this advanced degree** * www.bls.gov ** www.statista.com Amanda Barba During my undergraduate studies, I noticed I was drawn to exploring topics I have always felt strongly about, such as wildlife conservation, issues about climate change and human rights. This led me to pursue a master’s degree in Diplomacy and International Relations. Pairing this degree with my B.A. in English has strengthened my research and critical-thinking skills, plus given me the opportunity to share my passions with the world through published articles. Madeline Tineo While a student in Seton Hall’s Pre-Medical Pre-Dental Plus Program, I was encouraged to research several areas within the healthcare field. I came across a professional path that defined my next stage: Master’s in Healthcare Administration (M.H.A.). The comprehensive curriculum of the program provided me with the tools and techniques I continue to apply today in my job at a prominent N.J. hospital. Career Advantages Most employers prefer to hire people with demonstrated learning and expertise in multiple different fields rather than those with credentials in the same disciplinary area. Consider combining undergraduate and graduate degrees across diverse fields to differentiate yourself from other job applicants as someone with social skills and numeracy, the ability to analyze and manage big data, the capacity for creativity and healthcare, the skills of a manager or a historian and the knowledge of a nurse, scientist or lawyer. In addition, diversity of expertise can afford you greater flexibility to adapt to economic cycles, shifts in government funding or regulation, technological disruption or innovation, pandemics and other crises that affect any given employment sector. Dual Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs B.A., Communication / M.A., Communication B.A./M.A. English B.A./M.A. Museum Professions B.A. Political Science/M.P.A. B.A. Psychology/M.A. Prof. Psychology & Family Therapy B.A. Social and Behavioral Science/M.S. Athletic Training B.A. Social and Behavioral Science/M.S. Occupational Therapy B.A. Political Science or Sociology/M.P.A. B.A. or B.S./M.B.A. B.S.B. or B.A.B.A./M.B.A B.A. or B.S. Biology/M.S. Athletic Training B.S. Biology/Doctor of Physical Therapy B.S. Biology/M.S. Physician Assistant B.S. Physics/M.S. Engineering or Artificial Intelligence with Stevens Institute of Technology B.S. Financial Mathematics/M.S. Financial Analytics with Stevens Institute of Technology B.S. Financial Mathematics/M.S. Financial Engineering with Stevens Institute of Technology B.S. in Mathematics/M.S. in Data Science Any B.A. or B.S. with Minor in Mathematics or Applied Scientific Mathematics/M.S. in Data Science B.S./M.A., Diplomacy and International Relations B.S./M.S. or B.A./M.S. Psychology/Speech-Language Pathology B.S.E in Elementary and Special Education/M.S. Speech-Language Pathology B.S.E. in Elementary and Special Education/M.A. in Special Education with a concentration in Applied Behavior Analysis J.D./M.A. in Diplomacy and International Relations J.D./M.B.A. Joint Bachelor's/M.D. M.A. in Communication/M.A. in Diplomacy and International Relations M.B.A./M.A. in Diplomacy and International Relations M.P.A./M.A. in Diplomacy and International Relations 3+3 Law programs (B.S. in Business, International Relations or Political Science/J.D.) College of Arts and Sciences Biology (M.S.) Chemistry (M.S.) Chemistry (Ph.D.) Data Science (M.S.) – Online English (M.A.) Jewish Christian Studies (M.A.) Microbiology (M.S.) Molecular Bioscience (Ph.D.) Public Administration (M.P.A.) Social Work, (MSW) W. Paul Stillman School of Business Accounting (M.B.A.) Accounting (M.S.) Accounting (M.S.) – Online Business Analytics (M.B.A.) Business Analytics (M.S.) – Online Finance (M.B.A.) Finance (M.B.A.) – Online Information Technology Management (M.B.A.) Management (M.B.A.) Marketing (M.B.A.) Marketing (M.B.A.) – Online Professional Accounting (M.S.) Sport Management (M.B.A.) Supply Chain Management (M.B.A.) Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) – Online College of Communication and the Arts Museum Professions (M.A.) Communication (M.A.) College of Education and Human Services Applied Behavior Analysis (M.A.) Counseling (M.A./Ed.S.) Counseling (M.A./Ed.S.) – Online Counseling Psychology (Ph.D.) Education Leadership, Management and Policy (M.A.) – Online Education Leadership, Management and Policy (Executive M.A.) Education Leadership, Management and Policy (Executive Ed.S.) Higher Education and Student Affairs (M.A.) Higher Education Leadership, Management and Policy (Ed.D.) Higher Education Leadership, Management and Policy (Ph.D.) - Education Research, Assessment, and Program Evaluation (Ph.D.) Concentration Instructional Design and Technology (M.A.) K-12 School Administration (Ed.D.) K-12 School Administration (Executive Ed.D.) Police Graduate Studies (Off-Campus M.A.) Police Graduate Studies (M.A.) – Online Police Graduate Studies (Ed.S.) Psychological Studies (M.A.) School Psychology (M.A./Ed.S.) School Counseling (M.A.) School Counseling (M.A.) – Online Special Education (M.A.) School of Diplomacy and International Relations Diplomacy and International Relations (M.A.) International Affairs (Executive M.S.) Online Executive Master of Science (M.S.) School of Health and Medical Sciences Athletic Training (M.S.) Health Sciences (Ph.D.) Healthcare Administration (M.H.A.) Occupational Therapy (M.S.) Physician Assistant (M.S.) Physical Therapy (D.P.T.) Speech Language Pathology (M.S.) Seton Hall Law Jurisprudence, Concentration in Financial Services Compliance (M.S.J.) Jurisprudence, Concentration in Health & Hospital Law (M.S.J.) Jurisprudence, Concentration in Pharmaceutical & Medical Device Law & Compliance (M.S.J.) Jurisprudence, Concentration in Intellectual Property Law (M.S.J.) Jurisprudence, Concentration in Privacy Law and Cyber Security (M.S.J.) Juris Doctor (J.D.) Masters of Laws in Health Law (LL.M.) Masters of Laws in Intellectual Property Law (LL.M.) College of Nursing Adult-Gerontology Primary or Acute Care Nurse Practitioner (M.S.N.) – Online Doctor of Nursing Program (D.N.P.) – Online Nursing (Ph.D.) – On Campus Pediatric Primary Care Nurse Practitioner (M.S.N.) – Online Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (M.S.N.) – Online Immaculate Conception Seminary School of Theology Divinity (M.Div.) Pastoral Ministry (M.A.P.M.) Theology (M.A.) Contact Us Get More Info Discover more about the exceptional graduate programs and services that await you. Financing Your Degree Learn More Scholarships available to help meet your goals. Multiple options to finance your degree. Get Started How to Apply To make the process as seamless as possible for continuing students, applying is easy and streamlined. Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9000 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top