A&F Vending Services - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Auxiliary Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Vending Services Welcome Locations Beverage Donation Nutrition Payment Types & Refunds Installation Contact us UH Home Auxiliary Services Vending Services Vending Services Locations Beverage Donation Nutrition Payment Types & Refunds Installation Coke Campus Ambassador Contact us Contact us Auxiliary Services 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. Suite 103 University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-5013 Tel. 832-842-9053 auxiliaryservices@uh.edu Welcome Vending services are provided by the Coca-Cola Bottling Company and Canteen Vending. Providing high quality and convenient beverage, snacks and Fresh Food vending services to the UH community is important to us. Coke Beverage Vending Service Exclusive beverage vending service to UH is provided by the Houston Coca Cola Bottling Company. There are over 160 Coke beverage machines conveniently located on the UH campus, University Business Park, the UH College of Pharmacy at the Texas Medical Center and at the Small Business Development Center in downtown Houston. Canteen Snack, Fresh Food, Frozen Food and Coffee Vending Service Exclusive snack vending services to UH is provided by Canteen. Canteen vends snacks, fresh foods, frozen foods and hot beverages (coffee and hot chocolate) to the UH campus, University Business Park, the College of Pharmacy at the Texas Medical Center and the Small Business Development Center in downtown Houston. Installation If your department / division / office is interested in obtaining vending services for your area, please email your request to vending@uh.edu or contact our offices at 832-842-9053. Utilization, traffic patterns and required minimum sales are determining factors in the placement of vending machines. Your interest is greatly appreciated. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies