Skip to Main Content Search Onboard@Penn Submit Search Onboarding Location & Contact Remote I-9 Processing Penn Website Our staff is here to provide a safe and welcoming experience. We look forward to meeting you! Welcome to Penn! As part of Penn's enhanced people-centered emphasis, Onboard@Penn provides reliable, efficient, responsive services for new hires and current Penn workers. Schedule your in-person appointment with Onboard@Penn. Prior to visiting our office, please be sure to complete your onboarding tasks in Workday, including your I-9, and to bring original documents and identification. Onboarding Process You will receive two important communications as a part of the onboarding process: An email with instructions for setting up your PennKey and password, and A welcome email from Workday with instructions for completing your onboarding tasks Your PennKey and password are required to access many of Penn's systems, including Workday and SecureShare. Before your first day of work at Penn, you will need to complete the University's electronic onboarding process in Workday. Regular Hours On Campus Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., by appointment only Special Hours Appointment only through January 2022 Contact Us 3425 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3433 solutioncenter@upenn.edu 215-898-7372 New Hires For workers who will be on campus at any time for any reason, Form I-9 Section 2 must be completed in person: Review Lists of Acceptable Documents Make an appointment Proceed to Onboard@Penn, 3425 Walnut St., with original documents Employees Working Outside Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Delaware Employees working outside of PA, NJ, and DE may complete Form I-9 Part 2 using the CUPA Consortium for Reciprocal I-9: Use these remote I-9 processing instructions for the hiring department, worker, and authorized agent. To identify an authorized agent near you, please contact the Penn Employee Solution Center. Transitioning From Remote Work to On Campus If you completed Form I-9 electronically after March 16, 2020, and you have begun working on campus or you will return to campus in the future at least some of the time, you are required to bring the following documents to Onboard@Penn for physical inspection within 3 business days. Form I-9 Acceptable Documents. Bring one document from List A (Documents that Establish Both Identity and Work Authorization) - or - one document from List B (Documents that Establish Identity) and one document from List C (Documents that Establish Work Authorization). A green PennOpen Pass A face covering Please note: During normal operations, Part 2 of the Form I-9 must be completed in person at Onboard@Penn. Due to COVID-19, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has given temporary flexibility allowing electronic examination of documents for those employees who work 100% remotely. When this flexibility expires and/or when you begin working on campus at least some of the time, you will be required to bring your original documents to Onboard@Penn for physical examination within three business days. If you transition to working on campus at least some of the time in the future, please see the Onboard@Penn website for additional information and to schedule an appointment within three business days of when you begin to work on campus. Likewise, if DHS determines that it will no longer provide Form I-9 flexibility to those working 100% remotely, you will receive an email notification when you are required to come to Onboard@Penn, and it is expected that you will comply with that notice within the time period allotted. Quick Links Links List Solution Center Workday@Penn Penn HR U@Penn PennCard Penn Global University of Pennsylvania Onboard@Penn 3425 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-3433 SolutionCenter@upenn.edu (215) 898-7372 Home Penn Home Penn HR Home U@Penn Copyright © 2022 The University of Pennsylvania Copyright Equal Opportunity Employer Legal Notices Clery Act Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help