Home Constitution Application About Us Tangible Change was formed in 1999 to allow student leaders to come together and create events that enliven the Penn community. The committee aims to foster community-building within the University’s undergraduate population by funding collaborative events that promote interaction among disparate audiences. Unlike other campus funding sources, Tangible Change receives its funding directly from the Vice Provost for University Life. Because of our direct affiliation with VPUL, we have both more discretion in our funding decisions and freedom from the political mandates imposed by student government groups. In the 2011-2012 academic year, Tangible Change awarded over $40,000 to more than 33 events. The Fall 2013 Co-Chairs are Natalia Lladó Calderón and Rachel Bernard. They can be reached at tchange@dolphin.upenn.edu. Meeting Schedule In Fall 2013, all meetings will take place in the LGBT Center on Sundays at 4 PM. Please plan around our schedule when preparing your funding application. • September 8, 4-5:30pm • September 22, 4-5:30pm • October 6, 4-5:30pm • October 20, 4-5:30pm • November 3, 4-5:30pm • November 17, 4-5:30pm The Committee Tangible Change is composed of representatives from student government branches, umbrella organizations, and other student groups that have event-planning experience and knowledge of university resources. Currently, Tangible Change includes representatives from the following organizations: • Asian Pacific Student Coalition (APSC) • Assembly of International Students (AIS) • Civic House Associates Coalition (CHAC) • Freshman Class Board • Interfraternity Council (IFC) • Junior Class Board • Kite & Key Society • Lambda Alliance • Latino Coalition (LC) • Multicultural Greek Council (MGC) • Panhellenic Council • Penn Consortium of Undergraduate Women (PCUW) • Penn Political Coalition (PoCo) • Performing Arts Council (PAC) • Programs in Religion, Interfaith, and Spirituality Matters (PRISM) • Senior Class Board • Social Planning and Events Committee (SPEC) • Sophomore Class Board • Student Athletes Advisory Board (SAAC) • Student Activities Council (SAC) • UMOJA • Undergraduate Assembly (UA) • United Minorities Council (UMC) Funding Guidelines 1. Tangible Change does not fund parties, closed events, speaker’s events, fundraisers or events at which alcohol is present. 2. Tangible Change only funds events hosted in collaboration by student groups or events that specifically reach out to different segments of Penn’s undergraduate community. Collaborating organizations are expected to be equal partners in the planning of an event. 3. Tangible Change expects that proposal coordinators have already searched for other funding resources by the time of the proposal's submission. 4. Tangible Change reviews itemized budgets on a need-versus-want basis. 5. Tangible Change reserves the right to refuse proposals by organizations who are major sponsors of two or more Tangible Change-funded proposals from the same academic year. 6. All publicity materials of programming co-sponsored by Tangible Change must bear the Tangible Change name and logo. Download the logo as a printable .epsfile here: http://www.dolphin.upenn.edu/tchange/logo.eps. 7. Tangible Change does not fund retroactively.