Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Media Relations Explore More News Resources for Media Photographing and Filming on Harvard Property Multimedia Content Use Policies Harvard Gazette Ordering University Photos Press Releases Popular Topics Student Exchange and Visitor Program (SEVP) Lawsuit Harvard and COVID-19 Contact Admissions Lawsuit Resources for Media Content from the Harvard Gazette Resources for Media Photographing and Filming on Harvard Property Harvard Gazette Multimedia Policies Ordering University Photos Resources for Media Photographing and Filming on Harvard Property Harvard Gazette Multimedia Policies Ordering University Photos More Unless otherwise noted, you can republish Harvard Gazette articles for free, provided you adhere to the following guidelines: You can’t state or imply that Harvard, the article, or anyone featured in the article endorses a particular product or service. You cannot reproduce any Harvard insignia, shield, logos, or other marks without specific permission. You can’t edit our material, except to reflect relative changes in time, location, and editorial style. (For example, “yesterday” can be changed to “last week,” and “Cambridge, Mass.” can be changed to “Massachusetts” or “here.”) If you’re republishing online, you have to link to the original Gazette story, and include all of the links from our story. You can’t sell our material separately. It’s ok to put our stories on pages with ads, but not ads specifically sold against our stories. You can’t republish our material wholesale, or automatically; you need to select stories to be republished individually. You cannot republish our photographs without specific permission. For photo permissions, please email media@harvard.edu. You can embed Harvard videos and audio from our YouTube channel and SoundCloud accounts. You have to credit us – ideally in the byline. We prefer “Author Name, Harvard Gazette.” We do not generally permit translation of our stories into another language. For any further questions about the use of Harvard-curated content, please contact HPAC at (617) 495-1585. Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube