Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Student Life Date September 7, 2021 2021-09-07 Media Contact Maggie Spear [email protected] 401-863-7287 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Mason Lee: Inspired by nature to create connected communities The incoming first-year Brown student aims to combine interests in biotechnology, firefighting and fungi to build communities across U.S. states and fields of study. First-year student Mason Lee, holding a pennant, walks through the Van Wickle Gates as part of Brown's 258th Opening Convocation on Sept. 6. Photos by Nick Dentamaro/Brown University PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — To many, exploring burned-down homes and growing oyster mushrooms near their charred remains might seem like a strange way to spend a final high-school summer. But for first-year Brown undergraduate Mason Lee, it was the exciting culmination of years of research. When buildings are destroyed in wildfires, hazardous household waste seeps into the soil and is swept away in runoff, polluting the area with toxic materials. Working with a team of researchers at a nonprofit in Santa Cruz, California — halfway up the coast from his home in Los Angeles — Lee helped to mitigate the impact of pollution by developing a biofilter made of oyster mushrooms, which offers a safer, potentially cheaper alternative approach to environmental cleanup. That project combined Lee’s various interests — ecology, firefighting, technology and mycology, the study of fungi — in a way that previous work in high school hadn’t. When he began to explore colleges, the opportunity for similar hands-on research that builds on his interests was near the top of his list. “I was really drawn to the Open Curriculum at Brown, because I was unsure about how to combine all those different things that were pulling at me,” Lee said. “I wanted to find a way to explore that in a place that was collaborative, open, and really fostered a sense of freedom and responsibility in my own education.” Lee’s first step in making use of the intellectual freedom that Brown affords was asking the University to defer his enrollment (a request that was granted) while he took a gap year to help fight wildfires in his native state as a volunteer with the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. We have to go into this year and look at our class as something that is a collaborative venture between all of us. Everyone in this class will be positioned to make a difference, because we are the next generation of leaders in this country. Mason Lee Class of 2025 As a handcrew member, Lee spent months on the ground with his squad, working in 24-hour shifts, removing the fuel — flammable vegetation and timber — that wildfires need to spread. It is grueling manual labor with a high risk potential; in the western U.S., Lee said that historically poor environmental practices have caused wildland fires to burn hotter and longer than ever before. “There’s just a profundity of experiences you have when you’re on these fires, and you think that you could possibly get really injured or die,” Lee said. “That fostered a sense of urgency in my academics to address these issues.” When his work with CALFIRE came to an end, Lee continued to develop his interests in a way that would have made Jack Kerouac proud — he and some friends fixed up an old RV and set off to travel the country, stopping in 37 states to go rock climbing, explore jazz clubs in New Orleans and visit Brown’s campus for the first time. Lee said the trip was more than fun — it was inspiring. Over the course of his travels, he met fellow young scientists who were just as passionate about climate action and mycology; the enthusiasm they shared led him to create an open-source citizen science collective called Mycological Action Toward Sustainability (MATS), which is dedicated to investigating the intersections between community, technology and environmental preservation through mycology. In developing MATS, Lee took his inspiration from nature. In a forest, he said, trees are not individuals; root systems connect one tree to another to aid in healthy growth. And in cases where their roots don’t reach far enough, a type of fungi called mycorrhizae produces a white filament — called a mycelial mat — that weaves itself into the cell walls of the root and makes the connections that the trees’ own root systems can’t. “We see everyone in our organization as a tree, and as trees, we’re all connected by the mycelial mat — that is, our research,” Lee said. “And we draw from our unique strengths in that way.” Lee has few predictions on what his next four years at Brown will hold, but that’s part of why he’s so excited. “I hope to focus on what I find interesting, explore that niche deeply, then take that experience and refine it,” he said. “My goals will naturally progress with me, but I know that no matter what they are, Brown will allow me to keep fostering that love of learning.” Whether it’s one made up of mycelial mats or one connected through the shared experience of starting courses at Brown, Lee encourages his fellow first-years to understand and exalt the importance of community. By supporting each other and making consistent, meaningful connections, they can better position themselves to make an impact on urgent issues. “We have to go into this year and look at our class as something that is a collaborative venture between all of us,” he said. “Everyone in this class will be positioned to make a difference, because we are the next generation of leaders in this country.” Meet Brown’s newest undergraduates With classes set to begin on Wednesday, September 8, this year’s first-year, transfer and Resumed Undergraduate Education students are settling into living and learning on College Hill. Meet Brown’s newest undergraduates Tags The College Related news: Student Life Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics April 20, 2022 For 10 years, a student-run organization has taken to the air, delighting audiences with circus-inspired performances on trapeze, aerial silk, lyra and more. Read Article Open details for Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics Student Life Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community November 8, 2021 Brehan Brady — a self-described working-class kid from Pawtucket who transferred to Brown from the Community College of Rhode Island — joins other student veterans in forging a new path after their military service. Read Article Open details for Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community Student Life For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities November 4, 2021 With classroom experiences across the Open Curriculum and support from the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship, Perez built on her own experiences to launch EmpowerU, a startup that connects low-income students to higher education resources. Read Article Open details for For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Mason Lee: Inspired by nature to create connected communities Open details for Mason Lee: Inspired by nature to create connected communities Bookmark this Page