COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Chemistry, Minor MinorChemistry All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Chemistry and Biochemistry A minor in chemistry from Wichita State provides you with a basic background in chemistry. The minor is an ideal complement to many science-related degrees—and is good preparation for graduate school. Learn how chemistry is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application WSU American Chemical Society (ACS) members whip up ice cream in a flash—with the help of liquid nitrogen. Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Student researchers turn attention to cancer cells As a chemistry student, you have the opportunity to work with faculty who are on the cutting edge of research. Moriah Beck, assistant professor of chemistry at Wichita State, focuses much of her research on how cancer spreads. In her lab, which includes nine undergraduate and graduate students, she researches the human protein called palladin, a key regulator of our cells' most abundant protein actin. Curriculum The chemistry minor is 16 credit hours. You'll learn the foundations of general chemistry in addition to exploring inorganic, organic or physical chemistry, depending on your interests. View the curriculum Careers Adding a minor in chemistry to your bachelor's degree can make you more attractive to employers and give you additional skills you can use in your science-related career. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Chemistry Biochemistry Medical Laboratory Sciences Geology Forensic Sciences 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©