By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Accessibility & Diversity Multicultural Affairs More from this Section Report a Concern Diversity & Inclusion LGBTQ Resource Center Center for International Services Religious Groups Disability Cultural Center STOP Bias and Hate Accessible Syracuse Women in Leadership Initiative Multicultural Affairs The Office of Multicultural Affairs welcomes you. We support, guide, and encourage students to become members of a community that is respectful of differences. We offer one-on-one support and reach out to all students who are struggling with the mixed messages they may receive in dealing with the issues of race and diversity. Connect with OMA Our Mission To support and promote the academic achievement, multicultural competence, social development, civic engagement, and retention of students from historically underrepresented racial/ethnic groups at Syracuse University. Programs and Organizations There is a rich variety of cultural programs and organizations at Syracuse to help you connect and grow. A few are highlighted below, but you're encouraged to browse the whole list. The WellsLink Leadership Program This award-winning program engages first-year students in a comprehensive curriculum designed to enhance development in critical areas: ethnic/racial peer attachment, social engagement, worth and competence, reliable alliances, guidance, and leadership opportunities. fullCIRCLE Mentoring Program fullCIRCLE assists students in adjusting to the challenges of college life: academic, social, professional, and personal. Dimensions This program strives to create a place where women of color feel comfortable and included within and beyond the Syracuse University community. First-year students will be assisted by Dimensions mentors during the transition to campus life and activities. Black Celestial Choral Ensemble Founded in 1977, the Black Celestial Choral Ensemble consists of students at Syracuse University dedicated to ministering and lifting up the student community. Asian Students In America (ASIA) ASIA is a culturally diverse organization established as part of a rising movement of Asian American students. Multicultural Greek Council (MGC) The purpose of MGC is to provide a fraternity and sorority option that bases its membership on diversity awareness. MGC strives to enhance and enrich its members by promoting cross-cultural options. Related Pages Slutzker Center for International Services The Slutzker Center for International Services has been welcoming students and scholars from all over the globe for over 50 years. Multicultural Support Services We offer financial and career support to members of the Syracuse University community. OMA Events Calendar Stay up to date with OMA's events and activities. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy