Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > January 9, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff January 9, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution Dear Colleagues, On Friday, Governor Cuomo announced a number of changes to the COVID-19 vaccination program, including an expansion to Phase 1b; this includes people age 75 and older, education workers (through grade 12) and public transit and public safety employees. The vaccination of health care workers identified in Phase 1a is still not completed, but the expansion to this subset of Phase 1b allows for a process and timeline to begin the vaccination of over 3 million New Yorkers in many locations. The expectation is that administering the vaccine to people in 1a and 1b will take up to three months. The Governor also announced an expansion of locations where eligible individuals can get the vaccines. Eligible New Yorkers can get COVID-19 vaccines at sites located throughout the city. Please see this website for further details for eligible groups, locations, and scheduling: https://www1.nyc.gov/site/doh/covid/covid-19-vaccine-locations.page. Columbia University itself does not have access to the vaccine allocation, although we may in the future. We are working with our partner NYP as they have been a vaccine site for health care workers and will be so for patients age 75 and over. Please remember that we must follow the guidance from the Governor’s Office. Additional clarification from the State is expected over the weekend, and more information will be forthcoming in the next few days. This situation is rapidly evolving and as such, we will continue to provide frequent updates on our progress and plans. As a final note, the Columbia safety protocols, including face covering, physical distancing as well as gateway and follow-on testing, remain in effect, whether or not you are vaccinated. These continue to be the mainstay for protecting our community. Gerry Rosberg Senior Executive Vice President Donna Lynne SVP and COO University COVID Director Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top