Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Graphic Communications (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Think of all the products you use every day, each of which was designed, marketed, printed, packaged, sold and delivered. As a student in Graphic Communications you will develop both the technical and creative abilities to become a successful professional in a technology-driven and dynamic multibillion-dollar industry. Graphic Communications majors will learn the skills necessary for many different career focuses including graphic design, distribution, technology, printing, packaging, marketing and web design/development. Our unique concept of hands-on learning will prepare you for a variety of professions within the realm of graphic communications. FAST FACTS Students work in our 14,000-square-foot main laboratory and have access to two additional laboratories containing state-of-the-art printing and packaging equipment. The Sonoco Institute brings together the graphic communications and packaging science departments for synergistic classes, seminars and workshops. Our students are required to hold an industry internship for at least two semesters before graduating. Each semester, Graphic Communications hosts an Intern Employer Day, which provides time with representatives from more than 40 companies. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY When you walk into our laboratories, you'll see something different from other programs. You'll see faculty working side-by-side with students on various projects and equipment to provide them with the creative and scientific skills needed to succeed in any area of this growing industry. Your courses will be varied. Some will be in flexographic methods, printing industry operations and color reproduction, while others will include screen-printing methods and the five printing processes. Before graduation, you'll present digital and printed graphics projects — yours from concept to completion. The variety of interwoven skills in graphic communications means that a number of areas are explored in each class. For example, in any one class there might be students working in the lithographic area, another group in the sheet screen-printing area, others in the textile screen-printing area and even others in electronic prepress. Instead of separate classes for prepress, production and management, skills are combined in each class. In that way, you'll understand how the details of each assignment fit into the overall process. As a result, Clemson graphic communications students develop a variety of skills, knowledge and talents that are highly sought after in every graphic communications-related industry. Curriculum Graphic Communications, B.S. Popular Minors Brand Communications Business Administration Packaging Science Similar Majors Computer Science (B.S./B.A.) Marketing (B.S.) Packaging Science (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Combining creativity with technical skill, your knowledge will be stretched and molded as you pursue learning opportunities outside of the lab. Internship You'll be required to complete at least two industry internships before graduation. These internships are irreplaceable opportunities to network with potential employers and gain skills that provide an edge during future job searches. Leadership Every year, the Bill Treadaway Print Leadership Forum offers you a unique environment to engage and interact with industry leaders. Speakers share success stories from their careers and provide you with helpful advice for your future. Technology Our classes incorporate the most up-to-date technology, teaching you the skills necessary to comfortably navigate software and equipment before reaching the workplace. EXPLORATION You'll be offered numerous classes to choose from that have a wide variety subject matter. Each of our students are encouraged to explore all aspects of the process - from creative design to the printing press to the technology behind it COMPETITION Students interested in advanced flexography have the opportunity to participate in the Phoenix Challenge Foundation Competition, which focuses on flexographic product design and printing. OPPORTUNITY Experts and students alike come together to explore trending business solutions and exciting new profit opportunities at PrintExpo in Chicago, which you'll have the chance to attend. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS TAGA: Technical Association of the Graphic Arts Gamma Epsilon Tau AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Print Production Coordinator Boston Beer Company UX/UI Developer Horizon Investments Packaging Innovation Associate Newell Brands Graphic Design Coordinator The Hughes Agency Account Specialist R.R. Donnelley RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES MBA Wake Forest University MFA Digital Production Arts Clemson University M.A. Advertising Savannah College of Art & Design COMMON CAREER AREAS Management Sales Technical Sales Manager Marketing Creative Manager Process Engineer FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jake Anderson Recruiter manders@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Graphic Communications (B.S.) Computer Science (B.S./B.A.) Marketing (B.S.) Packaging Science (B.S.)