Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES NAVAL SCIENCE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 N SCI 101 The Naval Service (3) General introduction to the U.S. Navy and Marine Corps, with emphasis on organization, missions, roles, tasks, assets, and operations. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: N SCI 101 N SCI 102 History of U.S. Sea Power I (3) I&S A study of the U.S. Navy and Marine Corps as they fit into the history of the United States, from the American Revolution to the outbreak of World War II. Prerequisite: N SCI 101. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: N SCI 102 N SCI 103 History of U.S. Sea Power II (3) I&S A study of the U.S. Navy and Marine Corps as they fit into the history of the United States, from World War II to the present day. Prerequisite: N SCI 102. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: N SCI 103 N SCI 110 Naval Science Laboratory (*, max. 12) Evaluates the challenges of leading teams in complex contemporary environments. Topics vary. Required each quarter for NROTC students. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: N SCI 110 N SCI 201 Naval Leadership and Management (3) I&S Introduction of the theory and techniques of naval leadership based on principles of behavioral science pertinent to understanding individual and group behavior of adults. Introduces the management process and the relationship of management functions to leadership. Stresses acceptance of a traditional deep sense of moral responsibility on the part of the aspiring leader. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in N SCI 101. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: N SCI 201 N SCI 202 Navigation I (3) NW The science and practice of maritime coastal navigation, including visual fixing, dead reckoning, and piloting methods. Computation of tides and currents and nautical rules of the road. Prerequisite: N SCI 101. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: N SCI 202 N SCI 203 Navigation II (3) NW Megan Lum Basic theory and practice of celestial and electronic navigation. Relative motion theory and contact coordination practice in a multiple ship environment. Prerequisite: N SCI 202. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: N SCI 203 N SCI 301 Naval Ship Systems I (3) Study of fundamental principles of energy transfer and thermodynamics. An introduction to nuclear propulsion, gas turbines, and auxiliary power systems. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: N SCI 301 N SCI 302 Naval Ship Systems II (3) Study of ship characteristics, ship design, hydrodynamic forces, stability, damage control, and shipboard electrical systems. Includes introduction to engineering documentation, electrical safety, preventative maintenance, and personnel qualifications. Prerequisite: N SCI 301. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: N SCI 302 N SCI 303 Naval Weapon Systems (3) Study of fundamental principles of sensor, tracking, weapon delivery subsystems, and current naval weapons. Includes techniques of linear analysis of ballistics and weapons, and dynamics of basic components of weapon-control systems. Prerequisite: N SCI 302. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: N SCI 303 N SCI 321 Evolution of Warfare (3) I&S Focuses on how and why warfare has changed. Explores how warfare technology has evolved over time. Topics include military theory, fourth generation warfare, and Marine Corps doctrine. Designed for future Marine Corps Officers, but open to all students. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: N SCI 321 N SCI 323 USMC Leadership and Administration of Justice I (3) Concepts, objectives, characteristic qualities, and practical techniques of leadership as exercised by the Marine Corps officer. Emphasizes leadership and management role of the junior officer in the Fleet Marine Forces. Intensive physical activities and outdoor projects to test an individual's physical and mental endurance. Prerequisite: N SCI 110; N SCI 421. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: N SCI 323 N SCI 401 Naval Operations (3) Introduction to naval operations, the employment of naval forces, naval tactics, formulation of operations plans and orders, employment of detection equipment, and meteorology. Prerequisite: N SCI 101. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: N SCI 401 N SCI 402 Naval Leadership and Ethics (3) I&S Study of leadership and ethics within a military context using applicable case studies. Examines the Law of Armed Conflict and Code of Conduct; the importance of integrity, moral courage, and ethical behavior to effective leadership; and the interrelationship between authority, responsibility, and accountability. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: N SCI 402 N SCI 403 Naval Organization and Management (3) Study of organization, systems, and techniques employed in the Navy for management of its human, material, and financial resources. Some work relates to the administration of discipline in the Navy under the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Emphasis on the leadership and management role of the junior officer in the fleet. Prerequisite: minimum 2.0 grade in N SCI 402. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: N SCI 403 N SCI 421 Amphibious Warfare (3) I&S Provides basic knowledge of evolution of amphibious warfare from premodern era to present. Strategic, operational, and tactical considerations in planning specific operations and amphibious landings. Prerequisite: either N SCI 321 or minimum two POL S or JSIS courses. Offered: A, even years. View course details in MyPlan: N SCI 421 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022