COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Department of Economics Section Menu Department of Economics Home Degree Programs Master of Arts in Economics Department of Economics Directory Scholarships Institute for the Study of Economic Growth Behavioral Economics Laboratory Economics Bites on the Go Tutoring W. Frank Barton School of Business Home Contact Us Economics_Department Dual/Accelerated Economics Programs Seeking a career path where you can formulate an organization's policies, provide analysis to influence decisions, and make an impact in the world? Questions? Contact Us The Department of Economics at Wichita State offers a comprehensive curriculum to prepare students for employment in business, financial institutions, government, and non-profits. Studying economics also provides a strong foundation for graduate study in the areas of business, law, public policy and economics. Faculty and Staff Scholarships Tutoring Hours Undergraduate Programs Economics Major Studying economics at WSU provides you with a broad knowledge foundation. Majors learn about the economic ideas while developing critical thinking, writing and quantitative skills. Internships in the public and private sectors put economics learning into practice, preparing you for an impactful career. Economics Minor A minor in economics compliments many majors, including international studies, accounting, finance, marketing, philosophy, political science, statistics, psychology, mathematics and more. As a minor, you’ll practice critical thinking, writing and quantitative skills applicable across many different career areas. Graduate Degree Programs MA in Applied Economics The master’s program brings together economic theory and practical application in the field. Our faculty offer a diverse set of approaches to the study of economics, emphasizing critical interaction among economics theories and their industrial and analytical application. MA students join a close-knit community of faculty and peer collaborators. Accelerated MA in Economics Our accelerated program allows motivated students to earn their bachelor’s and master’s degrees over five years. It combines the benefits of our undergraduate and graduate degree programs and maintains our emphasis on studying economics in context and coupling critical thinking with quantitative analysis. Behavioral Economics Laboratory Economic experiments involve real people who make serious choices. Through their efforts, participants stand to make substantial amounts of money. Learn More Mentoring Program The program will include mentoring by ISEG faculty and invitations to seminars and networking events. The fellowship will also include a $200 annual stipend, split between fall and spring semesters. Learn More Institute for the Study of Economic Growth Institute for the Study of Economic Growth (ISEG) is to advance the teaching, research, and application of innovative and entrepreneurial activities in a free enterprise economy to enhance societal prosperity through economic growth. Learn More Econ Bites on the Go The virtual talk series called "Economics Bites on the Go" aims to provide Wichita State students an opportunity to interact with top-tier fun economists. Learn More Quotes from Students and Alumni "I chose Economics because I enjoy problem solving; the subject teaches me how to evaluate problems using both critical reasoning skills as well as logic." "Economics is a foundational element of business that covers a vast array of topics and decisions that businesses must make regularly." "The professors in the economics program are top-notch and helped me understand and internalize complex ideas and theories. They really care about the growth and knowledge of each student." "The economics program has helped me tremendously in giving me an analytical and curious mindset that helps always push me to ask 'why' and dig into these questions with data and models, and that is something that has set me apart in my career and helped push me forward." "I thoroughly enjoyed my Economics classes at WSU due to the excellent faculty in the department and believe the subject is very valuable for a variety of career paths.” "I majored in economics because I loved studying and understanding the reasons why businesses, governments, and consumers act the way that they do through the lens of economic theory, and finding quantitative ways to describe and model those behaviors." 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©