Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Registrar Academic Advising Academic Ceremonies Academic Ceremonies Fall Rotunda Passage May Commencement Opening Convocation December Rotunda Recessional December Commencement Spring Rotunda Passage Honors Convocation May Baccalaureate Service May Rotunda Recessional May Commencement Degree Honors Degree Honors Inserts Graduation & Diploma Services About Us Academic Records Academic Records Degree Honors Enrollment Rules Honor Roll Progress Grades Viewing Your Grades GPA Calculator Graduation Honors Inserts Transcript Requests Transfer Credit Legal Process Enrollment Information Enrollment Information Fall Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information Summer Enrollment Information Master of Science in Data Science Program Waitlist Guidelines Common Curriculum Online Course Evaluation Course Listings Help Enrollment Policy Exception Frequently Asked Questions Final Exam Schedule The General Education Curriculum Grade Posting Schedule University Curriculum View Textbooks Online Contact Us Contact Us Virtual Office Information SMU Links SMU Links Site Index About SMU Access and Equity Administration Bursar Calendars Campus Directory Clery Report Enrollment Services Financial Aid Giving Libraries Maps Meadows Museum Information Technology Registrar Search Student Affairs Webmail ☰ Calendars and Course Catalogs Academic Calendars Academic Year 2018-2019 Academic Year 2018-2019 This calendar includes an addendum listing religious holidays for use in requesting excused absences according to University Policy 1.9. For religious holidays not listed, contact the Office of the Chaplain. Graduate programs in the Cox School of Business, Perkins School of Theology and Dedman School of Law, and the Department of Dispute Resolution and Counseling within the Simmons School of Education and Human Development have different calendars. Dates that the offices of the University will be closed will be announced at a later date. Fall Term 2018 April 10–27, Tuesday–Friday: Enrollment for fall 2018 continuing students for all undergraduates and for graduates in Dedman College, Lyle and Meadows. May, July, August (TBA): Academic Advising, Enrollment and Orientation conferences for new first-year and transfer undergraduate students. Conference dates to be announced. More information about AARO is available from New Student Programs, Student Life Office, 214-768-4560, www.smu.edu/newstudent. August 18, Saturday: Residence halls officially open at 9:00 a.m. August 19, Sunday: Opening Convocation, McFarlin Auditorium. August 20, Monday: First day of classes. August 24, Friday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without tuition billing while remaining enrolled for the term. Last day to file for graduation in December. August 31, Friday: Last day to drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). Last day to withdraw from the university without academic record (withdrawal refund schedule applies). See Bursar’s website for more information. September 3, Monday: Labor Day. University offices closed. September 5, Wednesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. September 25, Tuesday: Early intervention grades due for first-year undergraduate students. September 28-29, Friday-Saturday: Family Weekend. October 8-9, Monday–Tuesday: Fall Break. October 10, Wednesday: Last day for continuing undergraduate students to change their majors before November enrollment. October 21, Sunday: Midterm grades due for first-year and sophomore students. October 29, Monday: 60 percent point of the term that federal financial aid has been earned if a student officially withdraws from SMU; prior to this date a partial calculated return to federal programs will be required. November 2, Friday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W) November 2-3, Friday-Saturday: Homecoming Weekend. November 5–23, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for spring 2019 continuing students for all undergraduates and graduates in Dedman College, Lyle and Meadows. November 8, Thursday: Last day for December graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. November 12, Monday: Students should file for May graduation. The last day to file is January 25, 2019. November 20, Tuesday: Last day to withdraw from the University. November 21, Wednesday: No classes. November 22–23, Thursday–Friday: Thanksgiving holiday. University offices closed. November 28–December 3, Wednesday–Monday: No final examinations or unscheduled tests and papers. November 29, Thursday: Last day for oral/written examinations for December graduate degree candidates. December 3, Monday: Last day of classes. December 4-5, Tuesday-Wednesday: Reading days. December 6-12, Thursday–Wednesday: Examinations. (No examinations scheduled for Sunday). December 13, Thursday: Residence halls close at 10:00 a.m. for winter break. (December graduates should contact the Department of Residence Life and Student Housing). December 14, Friday: December Rotunda Recessional. December 15, Saturday: December Commencement Convocation. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. Holiday Break (TBA): University closed. December 24 - January 1, Monday - Tuesday: University closed. December 25, Tuesday: Christmas Day. January Intersession 2019 Some areas of instruction offer selected courses during the January intersession, December 13-January 16. See the intersessions website for specific class information. January 1, Tuesday:New Year’s Day. University offices closed. Dallas Jan Term 2019 See the Intersessions website for specific class information. January 7, Monday: First day of classes. January 8, Tuesday: Last day to declare pass/fail. January 15, Tuesday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). January 16, Wednesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of the term and conferral of degrees. Jan Term at SMU-in-Taos 2019 January 4, Friday: Wellness student travel/arrival. January 6, Sunday: Regular session travel/arrival. January 7, Monday: First day of classes. January 8, Tuesday: Last day to declare pass/fail. January 15, Tuesday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). January 16, Wednesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Travel Day. Official close of the term and conferral of degrees. January 17, Thursday: Unofficial Taos Travel. Spring Term 2019 November 5–January 25, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for spring 2019 continuing students for all undergraduates and graduates in Dedman College, Lyle and Meadows. January 10, Thursday: Residence halls officially open at 9:00a.m. for new students. TBA - January: Residence halls officially open at 9:00a.m. January (TBA): Academic Advising, Enrollment and Orientation conferences for new first-year and transfer undergraduate students. Conference dates to be announced. More information about AARO is available from New Student Programs, Student Life Office, 214-768-4560, www.smu.edu/newstudent. January 1, Tuesday: New Year’s Day. University offices closed. January 18, Friday: First day of classes. January 21, Monday: Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. University offices closed. January 25, Friday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without tuition billing while remaining enrolled for the term. Last day to file for graduation in May. February 1, Friday: Last day to drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). Last day to withdraw from the university without academic record (withdrawal refund schedule applies). See Bursar’s website for more information. February 5, Tuesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Also, last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. February 25, Monday: Early intervention grades due for first-year undergraduate students. March 13, Wednesday: Last day for continuing undergraduate students to change their majors before April enrollment. March 11 -17, Monday-Sunday: Spring break. March 26, Tuesday: Midterm grades due for first-year and sophomore students. April 2, Tuesday: 60 percent point of the term that federal financial aid has been earned if a student officially withdraws from SMU; prior to this date a partial calculated return to federal programs will be required. April 8-26, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for summer 2019 and fall 2019 continuing students for all undergraduates and graduates in Dedman College, Lyle and Meadows. April 9, Tuesday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). April 12, Friday: Last Day for May graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. April 15, Monday: Honors Convocation, 5:30 p.m. April 19, Friday: Good Friday. University offices closed. April 21, Sunday: Easter Sunday. April 24, Wednesday: Students should file for August or December graduation. Last day to file for August graduation is June 6. Last day to file for December graduation is the last day to enroll for fall 2019. April 26, Friday: Last day to withdraw from the University. May 1–6, Wednesday–Monday: No final examinations or unscheduled tests and papers. May 2, Thursday: Last day for oral/written examinations for graduate students who are May degree candidates. May 6, Monday: Last day of classes. May 7, Tuesday: Reading Day. May 8–14, Wednesday–Tuesday: Examinations (No examinations scheduled for Sunday). May 15, Wednesday: Residence halls officially close for non-graduating students. May 17, Friday: Baccalaureate. May 18, Saturday: Commencement Convocation. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. May 19, Sunday: Residence halls officially close for graduating seniors. May Intersession 2019 Some areas of instruction may offer a limited number of selected courses during the May Intersession, May 16 – May 31. Each May Intersession course may have unique start and end dates within the May 16 – May 31 term to accommodate the particular needs of the course. Dallas May Term 2019 Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. May 16, Thursday:First day of classes. May 16, Thursday: Last day to add/enroll and to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. May 27, Monday: Memorial Day. University offices closed. May 28, Tuesday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). May 31, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. May Term at SMU-in-Taos 2019 NOTE: The following dates are applicable only for SMU-in-Taos. Permission of SMU-in-Taos required for all enrollments. May 15, Wednesday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2–6 p.m. May 16, Thursday: First day of classes. May 31, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. June 1, Saturday: Travel Day. Summer Term 2019 The summer term consists of three primary sessions: first session (June), second session (July) and a full summer session. Each primary session has different deadline dates. There are also four shorter sessions within the first and second sessions. There are also shorter and longer sessions to accommodate the particular needs of the various instructional units such as SMU Abroad, SMU-in-Taos, and Perkins School of Theology. Full Summer Session Note:Classes meet 2 hours, 15 minutes twice a week or 1 hour, 30 minutes three times a week. May 27, Monday: Memorial Day. University offices closed. June 3, Monday: First day of classes. June 6, Thursday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without grade record. Last day to file for August graduation. June 12, Wednesday: Last day to declare pass/fail, no credit grading options. July 4, Thursday: Independence Day. University offices closed. July 18, Thursday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. July 25, Thursday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). July 31, Wednesday: Last day to withdraw from the University. August 6, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. First Session (June) Note: Classes meet 2 hours a day, Monday–Friday May 27, Monday: Memorial Day. University offices closed. June 3, Monday: First day of classes. June 4, Tuesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without grade record. June 6, Thursday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to file for August graduation. June 25, Tuesday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). June 26, Wednesday: Last day to withdraw from the University. July 2, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. June A (11-day June Session) Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday June 3, Monday: First day of classes. June 3, Monday: Last day to add/enroll and to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. June 12, Wednesday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). June 17, Monday: Last day of classes, including examinations. June B (11-day June Session) Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday June 18, Tuesday: First day of classes. June 18, Tuesday: Last day to add/enroll and to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. June 27, Thursday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). July 2, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Summer I Session at SMU-in-Taos NOTE: The following dates are applicable only for SMU-in-Taos. Permission of SMU-in-Taos required for all enrollments. (Regular Session) June 4, Tuesday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. June 5, Wednesday: First day of classes. June 18, Tuesday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). June 20, Thursday: Last day of classes, including examinations. June 21, Friday: Departure of students. (Field Session) June 4, Tuesday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. June 5, Wednesday: First day of classes. June 27, Thursday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). July 2, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. July 3, Wednesday: Departure of students. Second Session (July) Note: Classes meet 2 hours a day, Monday–Friday. June 6, Thursday: Last day to file for August graduation. July 4, Thursday: Independence Day. University offices closed. July 8, Monday: First day of classes. July 9, Tuesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop without grade record. July 11, Thursday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. July 16, Monday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. July 29, Monday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). July 31, Wednesday: Last day to withdraw from the University. August 6, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. July A (11-day July Session) Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday July 8, Monday: First day of classes. July 8, Monday: Last day to add/enroll and to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. July 17, Wednesday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). July 22, Monday: Last day of classes, including examinations. July B (11-day July Session) Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday July 23, Tuesday: First day of classes. July 23, Tuesday: Last day to add/enroll and to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. August 1, Thursday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). August 6, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. August Term at SMU-in-Taos 2019 Note: The following dates are applicable only for SMU-in-Taos. Permission of SMU-in-Taos required for all enrollments. August 6, Tuesday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. August 7, Wednesday: First day of classes. August 21, Wednesday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). August 22, Thursday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. August 23, Friday: Travel Day. Major Religious Holidays August 2018-August 2019 Listing of religious holidays for use in requesting excused absences according to University Policy 1.9. For religious holidays not listed, the instructor or supervisor may contact the Office of the Chaplain. Christian Christmas December 25, 2018 Good Friday April 19, 2019 Easter Sunday April 21, 2019 Easter Sunday (Orthodox) April 28, 2019 Hindu Janmashtami September 3, 2018 Dasera October 19, 2018 Diwali November 7, 2018 Jewish* Rosh Hashanah September 10-11, 2018 Yom Kippur September 19, 2018 Sukkot/Simchat Torah September 24-October 1, 2018 Hanukkah December 3-10, 2018 Purim March 20/21, 2019 Pesach (Passover) April 20-27, 2019 Shavuot June 9-10, 2019 Muslim Eid al Adha June 15, 2019 Islamic New Year September 12, 2018 Ashura September 20/21, 2018 Mawlid an Nabi November 20/21, 2018 Ramadan May 6, 2019 Eid al Fitr June 4-7, 2019 *All holidays begin at sundown before the first day noted and conclude at sundown on the day(s) noted Academic Calendars Academic Year 2022-2023 Academic Year 2021-2022 Academic Year 2020-2021 Academic Year 2019-2020 Academic Year 2018-2019 Academic Year 2017-2018 Academic Year 2016-2017 Academic Year 2015-2016 Academic Year 2014-2015 Student Quicklinks my.SMU Request Transcript Course Catalog Final Exam Schedule University Curriculum Student Records Forms Preferred Name Honor Roll Important Messages to Students Student Appeals and Petitions Student Rights and Responsibilities Syllabus Library Transfer Credit/Equivalency Webpay Master of Science in Data Science Program Faculty/Staff Quicklinks my.SMU Enrollment Reporting Final Exam Schedule Forms Library: SR Forms (Public) Forms Library: SR Forms (Restricted) Important Messages to Faculty Policies and Procedures [Login] SR Policies & Procedures View all DES P&P Procedures- New Course/Prog Room Scheduling Syllabus Library Enrollment and Scheduling - Advanced Users Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share