Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Sociology About Us People Research Undergraduate Graduate Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact People Faculty Emeritus & Emerita Faculty Advisors & Instructors Staff Graduate Students Take Action Community Out of Chaos Online B.A. Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebook Home Sociology People Kendra Murphy Kendra Murphy Undergraduate Advisor, Computer Lab Coordinator, Instructor Phone (901) 678-4555 Email kendra.murphy@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-2525 Office Clement Hall, Room 229A Office Hours Call for Hours Ms. Kendra Murphy is an instructor coordinator and undergraduate advisor in the Department of Sociology at the University of Memphis. She earned her Bachelor's in Sociology at the University of Central Arkansas in 2003 and her Master's in Sociology at the University of Memphis in 2007. Upon graduating, she began teaching as a full-time instructor at the University and in 2012, she became the undergraduate advisor for the Sociology department. Ms. Murphy teaches undergraduate courses both in-person and online, including Introduction to Sociology, Introduction to Sociology for Pre-Med and Pre-Health, Racial and Ethnic Minorities, Sociology of Gender, Sociology of Deviant Behavior, Marriage and Family, Contemporary Social Problems and Social Statistics. Ms. Murphy was the recipient of the 2013 College of Arts and Sciences Excellence in Teaching award, the 2014 Alumni Association Distinguished Teaching Award, the 2016 College of Arts and Sciences Dean's Award for Advising Excellence, and the 2017 W. Russell Smith Award for Excellence in Teaching. Ms. Murphy's teaching is focused on helping students develop critical thinking and writing skills that they can use throughout their lives. She is best known for her creative lectures on social deviance, which is her favorite topic to teach. Whether by discussing statistics or bringing furries into the classroom, Ms. Murphy is committed to helping all of her students in developing their sociological imaginations. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/26/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.