Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Endeavor Home Events and Programs Endeavor Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Discover Your Career Path Endeavor is a free three-day virtual career exploration program during winter break that will empower you to take control of your career journey. Through reflective exercises, conversations with alumni, and industry immersions with employers, you will explore the fit of a few career options and leave knowing at least one career field you are interested in further exploring. Register Now Details Due to alumni availability and to ensure the safety of our community, Endeavor will be virtual this year. You will be able to participate from home and not cut your winter break short. Low commitment, high reward! Dates January 12–14, 2022 (Virtual*) Class Years Sophomores and Juniors Majors/Schools All Welcome! How to Register Registration closes November 3, 2021 at 11:59 p.m. Register Now NEW THIS YEAR: We are offering $250 mini-scholarships to students with high financial need in order to offset the lost wages from days not working while attending the program. Overview Endeavor is designed to help you better understand how the skills you are gaining through your coursework and extracurricular experiences translate to potential careers. You will be led through the three-day program by past participants, known as Endeavor Fellows, along with Career Center staff and returning alumni. By the end of Endeavor, you will be empowered to take control of your career journey. In addition, you will be able to: Describe 1-3 resources or strategies you can use to explore career fields. Identify 1-3 career fields that align with your interests that you would like to further explore. Identify 1-3 skills you hope to incorporate into your career paths that align with the skills employers are seeking in recent college graduates. Identify the nine Boston College career readiness competencies. Articulate at least one example of where you have developed each of the nine career readiness competencies. Create a plan to develop skills and competencies required for a particular field of interest. Connect the skills, interests, and values you are gaining at Boston College to specific career opportunities of interest. Develop confidence in communicating with alumni and professionals. Identify 1-3 next steps in your career discernment and planning. View Endeavor 2022 Schedule “Endeavor transforms the daunting task of deciphering one’s future into an exciting adventure of opportunity and possibility.” Lauren Burd, MCAS '22 Announcing the 2022 Keynote Speaker Bill Clerico '07 Founder, Convective Capital Bill is the founder of Convective Capital, an investment firm that backs entrepreneurs applying technology to prevent, suppress and mitigate wildfire-related impact. Previously, Bill was the founder and CEO at WePay, which he started at 23 and led for 12 years through its acquisition by J.P. Morgan Chase. At J.P. Morgan, Bill ran the SMB payments business, and led strategic investments in Toast, Touchbistro and Freshbooks. He has been named one of Bloomberg’s Best Young Tech Entrepreneurs & WePay was consistently named a Best Place to Work. Bill is an early stage investor in over 50 technology companies and previously was a part-time partner at Y Combinator. Bill also serves on the Board of Directors at PayNearMe. Bill & his wife Katey split their time between San Francisco and Boonville, CA where Bill is a volunteer firefighter with the Anderson Valley Fire Department. Bill is an avid pilot and skier, and holds a B.S. in Computer Science from Boston College. Endeavor Keynote Speakers A look inside the three-day experience Footage from Endeavor 2020. Video by Young Kim, MCAS '21. Impact of Endeavor Past participants tell stories of how Endeavor helped them connect their skills, interests, and values to meaningful career opportunities. Play A Shift in Mindset Alycia Carroll '19 Economics major Alycia Carroll found herself confused and conflicted. She liked her classes, was doing well in them, but they didn’t bring her joy. The social justice work she experienced in her Pulse class did. At Endeavor, Alycia met an alumna working for a big company making positive social change, proving to Alycia you could do both. Play When One Door Closes Brian Kusior '19 As the son of two doctors, Brian Kusior assumed he would naturally follow in his parents’ footsteps. After receiving his first C in chemistry, a class he excelled at in high school, feelings of self-doubt began to emerge. Was the pre-med track right for him? Endeavor began a journey of self discovery that would lead him to new and unexpected choices. Play Listen to Yourself Elena Akins '19 Communication major Elena Akins felt overwhelmed by the number of career options available to her. She knew she wanted a job that would have a direct and meaningful impact on people, but what career path would lead her there. A simple piece of advice she received at Endeavor helped narrow the field and introduced an unexpected career choice. Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College