Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Welcome to Student Financial Aid Menu Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Home Student Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions How do I get in contact with a Financial Aid counselor? You can visit us for in-person advising in 105 Schmitz Hall. No appointment needed. From March 28th our in-person advising hours are: Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday 11:00 am – 1:00pm You can get in contact with our financial aid counselors by calling 206-543-6101 during our phone service hours: Monday & Friday 10:00am – 3:00pm Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday Noon – 3:00pm Closures: May 30th in observance of Memorial Day You can also reach a financial aid counselor by email using our contact form. If you have questions regarding our processing time, or email response time, please see our current processing times on this page. We appreciate your patience and understanding as we work hard to provide the best financial aid support and services while maintaining the health and safety of our staff, students, and the UW community. I am a newly admitted student - now what? We understand you and your parent(s) may have many questions about what steps are next, what type if aid you are eligible for and other questions related to the financial aid process. We have gathered useful information for newly admitted students on this page. If you are from out of state this page has some useful information. Why hasn't my financial aid disbursed/paid? Here are the most common reasons for aid not disbursing: You are not full time. (12 or more credits for undergraduates, 10 or more credits for graduates) You received private aid that was not reported to the Office of Student Financial Aid. You did not meet Satisfactory Academic progress (See links: Undergraduate | Graduate) Loans: If your loans have not disbursed it may be the above reasons or you may not have completed the required forms or entrance counseling for the loan programs. MyUW shows a hold on my account, what does that mean? Holds prevent aid from disbursing to you for a variety of reasons. Usually, holds are placed because we are missing requested documentation, or you may not have completed enough credits in the previous quarter or prior academic year. There is information about the type of holds on your MyUW account under financial aid status and you are welcome to contact us with any remaining questions about how to resolve the hold(s) on your aid. It is also important to continually check your UW email, as we will also notify you there in regards to the paperwork we need from you. What can I do if my income or my family’s income has changed? We understand this is a challenging and difficult time and there is much uncertainty right now. We are here to help. If you are experiencing a change in your or your family’s income, please let us know by providing additional information about your situation. If your parent(s) are experiencing a change in their financial situation, please have them complete the Revision Request for Change in Financial Situation. If you (or your spouse) are experiencing a change in your financial situation, please provide additional information using the Revision Request for Change in Financial Situation. You can indicate that the nature of the change is due to COVID-19. All our forms for the 2022-23 academic year, and the 2021-22 academic year can be found on our forms page. What is the best way to submit documents that were requested by the Financial Aid Office? If you received a request for additional information, please use the link to the form in the email. If you are submitting additional documentation you can upload in a secure manner by using our form “Information Update”. It can be found under General on our forms page. Is there Emergency Aid available to students? Yes, the UW has an emergency aid program. More information and the emergency aid request form can be found at https://www.washington.edu/emergencyaid/. Our emergency aid team will respond to your request within 7-10 business days and offer options for assistance. More answers to frequently asked questions can be found here. If these FAQ’s do not help address your question, then please contact us. For up-to-date campus information, visit washington.edu/coronavirus. Prospective students Welcome New Huskies Net price calculator Student budgets Application process Husky Promise Scholarships Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Of special interest to Non-resident students Transfer students Veterans Undocumented Students/Other Select Applicants Fee-based programs Students with dependent children Non-matriculated students International students Important information Key dates and deadlines Information release Satisfactory academic progress Withdrawal policy Loan repayment Consumer information Emergency Food Assistance News Summer Aid Application Spring Advising Hours Newly Admitted Students Non-Residents Federal School Code Our Title IV federal school code is 003798. This code is used for Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. About us Our mission is to provide educational access and opportunity for all students. We promote participation in higher education by providing programs of assistance to help bridge the gap between the cost of attending the University and the family’s own resources. We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA