Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Department of Geosciences Menu Department of Geosciences About Us Contact Us Geosciences Seminar Series Geosciences Newsletter Student Groups and Societies News Events Facilities Geoluminescence Dating Research Lab Outreach Standards of Geoscience Ethics FAQs about Geology Alumni Update Form People Faculty Directory Affiliated Faculty Research & Teaching Staff Administrative Staff Postdoctoral Researchers Graduate Students Research Biogeosciences Energy Geosciences Hydrological and Surface Processes Lithospheric Processes Paleoclimate Solid Earth and Planetary Sciences Baylor Geological Studies Publications Graduate Undergraduate Make a Gift Apply Department of Geosciences Baylor Geosciences focuses on integrative and interdisciplinary research, teaching, and service in Earth and planetary sciences. ExploreApply Now About the Photo A sandstone slab from the Early Triassic (Induan) Dinwoody Formation from Beaverhead Co., Montana. The fossils preserved on the slab are bivalve genera Eumorphotis and Promyalina, which act as opportunistic "disaster taxa" and proliferate in the aftermath of the Permian-Triassic Mass Extinction. Research Research in the Department of Geosciences includes a wide range of topics and disciplines in Earth Sciences including Biogeosciences, Energy Geosciences, Paleoclimate, Solid Earth and Planetary Sciences, Surface and Hydrological Processes, and Lithospheric Processes. Learn More About Our Research Graduate Programs The Department of Geosciences offers two graduate degrees: MS and PhD. Learn More About Our Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs The Department of Geosciences has three undergraduate programs: Majors in Geology, Geophysics, and Earth Science, minors in Geology and Earth Science, and a secondary major in Geology. Learn More About Our Undergraduate Programs News and Events Ben Sadler, Geosciences Ph.D. student, awarded a scholarship from Fort Worth Geological Society May 24, 2022 Ben Sadler, Geosciences Ph.D. student, received a scholarship from the Fort Worth Geological Society in recognition of his research and scholastics. Read More Toluwaleke Ajayi, Geosciences Ph.D. student, awarded the E. Russell Lloyd Memorial Scholarship May 18, 2022 Toluwaleke Ajayi, Geosciences Ph.D. student, was awarded the E. Russell Lloyd Memorial Scholarship from the West Texas Geological Society (WTGS) Scholarship Committee. Read More Graduate Student, Des Thorne, receives Dallas Paleontological Society Scholarship May 5, 2022 Des Thorn was awarded the Dallas Paleontological Society Frank Crane Memorial Scholarship for 2022 to support her MS thesis research, “Using Sycamore leaves to reconstruct ancient light environments”. Read More Price Family Endowed Fund for Undergraduate Studies in Geology Apr. 22, 2022 In 2017, Baylor parents James and Christina Price of Sarasota, Florida, established the Price Family Endowed Fund for Undergraduate Studies in Geology. As part of the Give Light campaign, the Prices’ gift creates a permanent and enduring source of support for undergraduate students in Baylor’s Department of Geosciences. Read More More News May 16 2022 Minimester session Jun 3 2022 Summer Session I Jun 20 2022 Juneteenth - University Holiday Jul 4 2022 Independence Day - University Holiday More Events Follow Us on Social Media Department of Geosciences Baylor Sciences Building, Room D.409 (254) 710-2361 geosciences@baylor.edu ApplyVisitMake a GiftFacebookInstagramTwitter Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Contact Us Geosciences Seminar Series Geosciences Newsletter Student Groups and Societies News Events Facilities Geoluminescence Dating Research Lab Outreach Standards of Geoscience Ethics FAQs about Geology Alumni Update Form People Faculty Directory Affiliated Faculty Research & Teaching Staff Administrative Staff Postdoctoral Researchers Graduate Students Research Biogeosciences Energy Geosciences Hydrological and Surface Processes Lithospheric Processes Paleoclimate Solid Earth and Planetary Sciences Baylor Geological Studies Publications Graduate Undergraduate Make a Gift Apply