Directory Maps Contact Us AccessUH UH Home Home About Prospective Students Current Students Corporate Resources Parents Alumni Visitors Staff Resources Faculty & Research Academics Undergraduate MBA & Graduate Full-Time MBA Professional MBA Executive MBA MS Programs MS Accountancy MS Business Analytics (STEM) MS Entrepreneurship MS Finance (STEM) MS Global Energy Leadership MS MIS (STEM) MS Marketing Online MS Management & Leadership MS Sales Leadership MS Supply Chain Management (STEM) Online Doctoral Office of Executive Development The Bauer Mini-MBA Earn a Certificate Custom Programs Centers Wolff Center for Entrepreneurship (WCE) Real Estate Program Stephen Stagner Sales Excellence Institute (SEI) Gutierrez Energy Management Institute (GEMI) AIM Center for Investment Management (ACIM) Decision Sciences Institute Center for Economic Inclusion Institute for Health Care Marketing (IHCM) Institute for Regional Forecasting (IRF) UH Small Business Development Center Student Success Advising Emerging Leaders Academic Success Program Leadership & Engagement Bauer Honors RED Labs Learning Abroad Departments Accountancy & Taxation Decision & Information Sciences Finance Management & Leadership Marketing & Entrepreneurship Offices Office of Digital Learning Office of Experiential Learning Office of Global Initiatives Apply for Scholarships Apply to UH Career Center Students Alumni Employers News & Events News Center Events Calendar Latest News Where Awesome Happens Inside Bauer Administration Office of the Dean Bauer College Board Strategic Initiatives 2020-2025 Strategic Plan AI & Digital Society Digital Learning Experiential Learning Global Initiatives Inclusive Leadership Bauer Division of Technology Leadership & Engagement Bauer Excellence Scholars Office of Communications Invest in Bauer Invest in Bauer Home Your Investment How to Invest The Bauer Excellence Initiative BauerMerch.com Contact Us Invest Now Home Menu The Latest Updates on COVID-19 Apply Today to Bauer Grad Programs Domestic application deadline due June 1. A Bold Call to Action Bauer College gives updates on Strategic Plan. A Culture of Mentorship New Inside Bauer Magazine issue focuses on role mentors provide to students, alumni. Inaugural Bauer Gala Sets College Records Gala draws noted business leaders, political figures at inaugural event. March 3 Proclaimed "C. T. Bauer College of Business Day" Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner presents proclamation during record-setting inaugural gala. Fortune Magazine Ranks Bauer MBA Program in Top 25 UH Professional MBA lands on best part-time MBA programs list. A Message from Dean Paul A. Pavlou UH Wolff Center for Entrepreneurship ranks no. 1 three years in a row. Wolff Center for Entrepreneurship Ranked No. 1 in the Nation Bauer College's powerhouse program earns top ranking for third consecutive year. Prospective Students Current Students Corporate Resources Alumni Visitors Faculty & Research Staff Resources Latest News The Future Is Bright For Bauer Graduates May 16, 2022 The C. T. Bauer College of Business celebrated Spring and Summer 2022 graduates during two commencement ceremonies on May 14. Bauer College Recognizes Spring 2022 Outstanding Graduates May 11, 2022 Each semester, the Office of Graduate and Professional Programs at the C. T. Bauer College of Business selects graduates from each program to recognize as outstanding students. Bauer Celebrates Sixth Cohort of Ted Bauer Undergraduate Business Scholars May 19, 2022 Graduating seniors of the sixth cohort of the Ted Bauer Undergraduate Business Scholarship Program were celebrated during a special event. More News Events More Events About Us The C. T. Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston connects industry to academia, providing experiential learning opportunities to students and powering Houston’s workforce. Bauer College is Houston’s most comprehensive business school, offering a range of degree programs at the undergraduate, graduate and doctoral levels. With a course portfolio ranging from classes covering the business of energy to how to launch a startup, we prepare students not only to get a job, but to make an impact. Our strong pool of expertise among Bauer faculty gives students an integrated learning experience across academic disciplines. Bauer faculty are distinguished scholars who take an innovative approach to teaching, and many have substantial backgrounds in the professional world, providing our students with their first-hand experiences leading and starting businesses. Students graduate from Bauer College motivated and ready to make an impact in the world. In fact, more c-suite executives have graduated from Bauer College than any other school in Houston. Our alumni and corporate partners have committed to support Bauer, bolstering our connection to industry and taking the college to the next level of success. Click here to see the roster of the Bauer College Board. See More Latest Videos Scholarships BauerMerch.com More About Houston's Business School Take a Virtual Tour of Bauer College Launch Experience By the Numbers Social Media View this post on Instagram A post shared by UH Bauer College (@uhbauercollege) Social Media Directory Media Mentions What is in store for the job market in 2022? WalletHub.com | April 15, 2022 Networking-Starved Professionals Get 'Back on the Gala Train' Wall Street Journal | March 2, 2022 Houston produce distributor feeling financial impacts of Russia's war on Ukraine KPRC 2 NBC Houston | March 9, 2022 Chambers Join Forces to Bring Key Economic Development Study to the Region Hello Woodlands | March 1, 2022 Ask the Experts: What does it say about car insurance companies that so many have celebrity endorsers? WalletHub.com | March 3, 2022 Advantages to Adding Authorized Credit Card Users MoneyGeek.com | January 21, 2022 Long-Term Benefits to 0% APR Credit Offers MoneyGeek.com | January 21, 2022 Credit Card Advice for People with Bad Credit WalletHub.com | January 20, 2022 News Center Inside Bauer Inside Bauer is produced for the C. T. Bauer College of Business by the Office of Communications within the Office of the Dean. The magazine highlights student success, faculty research and innovation, programs, alumni and donors and more. This digital issue of Inside Bauer, the biannual magazine of the C. T. Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston, includes exciting video content as well as related links to other stories and virtual interviews! In this issue, we highlight “A Culture of Mentorship.” As part of the fabric of the college and woven into the Strategic Foundations of our current Strategic Plan, Bauer College ensures that there is at least one stop on the road for students that allows for the opportunity to gain perspective from someone who has walked — perhaps stumbled — through that same path and can provide hard-earned wisdom and encouragement. We've highlighted a number of ways that Bauer students, alumni, faculty, staff and partners have benefitted from a mentor and how it has impacted them in their journey. We are also highlighting the many successes of our programs in 2021 and 2022. We celebrated our inaugural Bauer Gala, a third consecutive Number 1 ranking for the Cyvia and Melvyn Wolff Center for Entrepreneurship, our Cougar Investment Fund celebrating a 20th anniversary, our Office of Global Initiatives expanding their footprint, and the launch of a new bold message, “The Future Is Our Business.” Please take a moment to explore this issue of Inside Bauer, and let us know what you think. You can also share your thoughts and favorite stories on social media, using #BauerLovesHouston. Email us if you have questions, would like to be added to the mailing list or would like to suggest a story. Inside Bauer Magazine Main Navigation Home Bauer Home Page About Prospective Students Current Students Corporate Resources Parents Alumni Visitors Staff Resources Faculty & Research Academics Undergraduate MBA & Graduate Online Doctoral Executive Development Centers Advising Departments Office of Digital Learning Office of Experiential Learning Office of Global Initiatives Apply for Scholarships Apply to UH Career Center Students Alumni Employers News & Events News Center Events Calendar Latest News Where Awesome Happens Inside Bauer Administration Office of the Dean Bauer College Board 2020-2025 Strategic Plan Digital Learning Experiential Learning Global Initiatives Inclusive Leadership Bauer Division of Technology Leadership & Engagement Bauer Excellence Scholars Office of Communications Invest in Bauer Invest in Bauer Home Your Investment How to Invest The Bauer Excellence Initiative Contact Us Invest Now Home Bauer Home Page About Prospective Students Current Students Corporate Resources Parents Alumni Visitors Staff Resources Faculty & Research Academics Undergraduate MBA & Graduate Online Doctoral Executive Development Centers Advising Departments Office of Digital Learning Office of Experiential Learning Office of Global Initiatives Apply for Scholarships Apply to UH Career Center Students Alumni Employers News & Events News Center Events Calendar Latest News Where Awesome Happens Inside Bauer Administration Office of the Dean Bauer College Board 2020-2025 Strategic Plan Digital Learning Experiential Learning Global Initiatives Inclusive Leadership Bauer Division of Technology Leadership & Engagement Bauer Excellence Scholars Office of Communications Invest in Bauer Invest in Bauer Home Your Investment How to Invest The Bauer Excellence Initiative Contact Us Invest Now × Undergraduate Prospective Students Bachelor of Business Administration Academic Advising Graduate & Doctoral Full-Time MBA Professional MBA Executive MBA MS Accountancy MS Business Analytics (STEM) MS Entrepreneurship MS Finance MS Global Energy Leadership MS Management Information Systems Online MS Management & Leadership MS Marketing MS Sales Leadership MS Supply Chain Management Doctoral Executive Comprehensive Leadership Programs Open Enrollment Programs Custom Programs Student Success Scholarships Leadership Initiatives Bauer Honors Learning Abroad Success Stories Career Services Rockwell Career Center Career Gateway Our Campus UH System Emergency Information Privacy and Policies Jobs at UH About Bauer Our Message Our Name Our Story Our Faculty Our Students Our Learning Goals Our Rankings Our Mission Bauer College Board Faculty & Staff Directory BauerConnect (SharePoint Intranet) Staff Resources Room Reservations Social Media Contact Us suggestions@bauer.uh.edu Contact Us Directions & Parking C. T. Bauer College of Business 4250 Martin Luther King Boulevard, Room 334, Houston, Texas 77204-6021. (713) 743-2255 suggestions@bauer.uh.edu Last modified on 25 May 2022 at 10:41am ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies