By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Counselors More from this Section First Generation Students Contacts & Questions Native American Apply Veterans International Transfer First-Year Admitted Welcome Counselors Syracuse University recognizes the vital role school counselors play in the lives of their students! We strive to make the college search and application process as smooth as possible. Please reach out to us if we can assist you or your students at any point. Spring 2022 Updates We realize that the college search, application and decision process is constantly changing due to COVID-19. We continue to closely monitor the situation and offer the following updates to assist you and your students. Given the extraordinary circumstances facing high school students and families due to the COVID-19 pandemic, SAT/ACT scores will not be required for students applying for Fall 2022, Fall 2023 or Spring 2024 admission. Students who are unable to submit test scores, or who choose not to, will not be disadvantaged and will remain eligible for merit scholarships. Please read the full details surrounding this update here. Campus Visitation The Office of Admissions welcomes students and their families to schedule an in-person campus visit. Please visit our Campus Visits webpage for registration and information about COVID-19 safety guidelines. In addition to student-led tours, we also offer a self-guided and virtual tour. Students are also invited to join us for one or more of our virtual sessions, including general information sessions and school/college sessions. Additional themed sessions and student panels will be added throughout the semester. We invite counselors to contact their regional representative to schedule a visit or other virtual program. Additional Information Given the extraordinary circumstances facing high school students and families due to the COVID-19 pandemic, SAT/ACT scores will not be required for students applying for fall 2022 admission. Students who are unable to submit test scores, or who choose not to, will not be disadvantaged and will remain eligible for merit scholarships. Please read the full details surrounding this update here. We are pleased to announce that Syracuse University will begin accepting the Coalition Application in fall 2022 (for students entering fall 2023). For students who are not able to access a TOEFL or IELTS testing center, we are now accepting the Duolingo English Test. Please know how much we appreciate your dedication and partnership, especially during this uncertain time. If there is anything we can do for you, please let us know. Contact Us For general inquiries, reach us by email at orange@syr.edu or by phone at 315-443-3611. To contact your regional representative, please visit our Meet Your Admissions Representative page. Quick Links Schedule a Visit What We Look For First Year Applicants Tuition, Financial Aid, and Scholarships International Applicants Application Checklist Majors & Minors Preparing Applications Common Application Syracuse University utilizes the Common Application and a holistic review process. We encourage students to utilize our application checklist and MySlice portal to ensure submission of all required documents. Test Scores International applicants must submit an English proficiency examination score. Learn about accepted English proficiency exam scores. Fee Waivers Syracuse honors College Board and ACT fee waivers, NACAC fee waivers, and requests from school counselors documenting financial hardship. Submitting Documents Application materials not submitted through the Common Application can be emailed to orange@syr.edu, faxed to 315-443-4226 or mailed to: Syracuse University Undergraduate Admissions Processing Center 400 Ostrom Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Dates & Deadlines Review our enrollment options, dates, and deadlines for further instructions on submitting applications. Please note our college-specific requirements for additional application items and due dates, such as portfolios and auditions. FAFSA and CSS Profile applications are due at the time of application. For additional information regarding need-based aid, please contact our Office of Financial Aid. Related Pages Latest News from Syracuse University Syracuse University News is updated daily with stories about the people, events and scholarship occurring on campus, in the City of Syracuse, at our regional locations throughout the country and across the globe. Syracuse University News also contains listings of University events, campus announcements, faculty and student news, and highlights from local, national and international press coverage. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy