Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home Rising Stars in Engineering in Health - 2021 Workshop Events Past Event Rising Stars in Engineering in Health - 2021 Workshop Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo November 19, 2021 - November 20, 2021 Mudd Hall, 500 W. 120 St., New York, NY 10027 Show Map For the first time this fall, Johns Hopkins University and Columbia University are joining forces to co-host our annual Rising Stars in Engineering in Health Workshop. As each institution pursues excellence in engineering in health, we have made it our priority to do so in an environment that embraces diversity, equity, and inclusion. With this in mind, Columbia Engineering, Columbia Medicine, and Johns Hopkins Biomedical Engineering are pleased to co-host this annual workshop, working side-by-side to innovate at the intersection of engineering and health science and educate the next generation of scientists. The in-person, two-day interactive workshop will take place on Friday-Saturday, November 19-20, 2021 on Columbia's Morningside campus in New York City, and will feature rapid-fire research talks, educational presentations, intensive workshops, mock interviews, and panel discussions with Columbia and Johns Hopkins faculty. We welcome applicants from across the United States who are interested in the intersection of engineering and biomedicine, and who include postdoctoral fellows/research scientists and graduate students who are 1-2 years away from applying for a faculty position. We especially encourage applicants from groups historically underrepresented in the disciplines. Eligibility: Applicants must be doctoral students, postdoctoral fellows, or research scientists who aspire to seek a faculty position in the interdisciplinary field of engineering and biomedicine in Fall 2022 or later. Selection: Twenty+ rising stars will be selected from the applicant pool to participate as presenters and participants in the Workshop. All qualified applicants, whether they are selected as a rising star or not, will be invited to participate (virtually) in the educational portions of the Workshop. Application Requirements: Applicants should submit the following materials via the Google Form linked above: 2-page academic statement 1-page diversity statement CV Applicants are encouraged to submit their application as soon as possible and no later than July 16, 2021. Notification: Successful applicants will be notified by August 18, 2021. Contact Information Alexis Newman [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close