Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music About Us Admissions Academics Ensembles Faculty Support Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Majors and Programs Composition Commercial Music Conducting Jazz Studies Music Business Music Education Music History Pedagogy Performance BrassKeyboardPercussionStringsVocal Arts Woodwinds Recording Technology Vocology Certificate Take Action Apply Now Alumni Support Us Scheidt Family Music Center Contact Us Follow the School of Music Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedInVimeo Home Music Academics Music Business Launch your thriving career in the city that help build the music industry. Equip yourself with the technical and entrepreneurial know-how to establish a career in the music business. This dynamic program prepares its students to think about what’s new and next, using technology, business acumen and creative thinking to empower students with the most sought-after skills that performers, songwriters and other creatives need in the 21st century. Within our NASM-accredited program, you will study how the music business currently operates and where the business is headed in the key areas of music publishing, licensing, law, management, touring, marketing, and entrepreneurship. This degree will prepare you for a variety of music business-focused careers, including artist manager, booking agent, music publisher, business manager, concert promoter, music supervisor, label operations manager, entrepreneur, and more. Through experiential training with the School’s student-run label, BlueTom Records, as well as the school’s on-campus record company, High Water Records and its publishing imprint, Music River Publishing, students can acquire comprehensive insight and experience across the many sub-disciplines of the music business. You will enjoy state-of-the-art music facilities, and work with a large and diverse community of faculty, students, and industry professionals. You’ll have the opportunity to attend numerous concerts, clinics, and master classes given by students, faculty, and visiting artists that will broaden your experience. Additionally, the University’s location allows limitless opportunities to plug into a vibrant music city. Admission + Audition Requirements Interested students should complete the University of Memphis application and apply to the School of Music. Music Business interviews are held to determine admission into School of Music programs and to award performance scholarships and graduate assistantships. All students who want to major or minor in music, or who seek a music scholarship must interview. What degrees do we offer? Bachelor of Music in Music Business Outcomes: Music Business students will obtain competitive and marketable expertise in publishing, marketing, distribution, production, management, and record company operations through real-world experience through the University-owned label and imprint. Music Business students will develop the professional, technical and interpersonal skills that you need to work collaboratively with other artists in areas including touring, recorded music, publishing, merchandising, and sponsorship Music Business students will acquire the business skills required to efficiently run a music business company, protect intellectual property and comprehend the legal aspects of the music business Scholarships available. Map out your college experience! View Bachelor of Music in Music Business required courses for degree completion. APPLY NOW > Student + Alumni Success Charles Seaton (BM ‘21) Music Publishing Coordinator, Crosstown Arts in Memphis, TN. Elizabeth Hornor (BM ‘18) Marketing Coordinator, Memphis Tourism Jeffrey Jordon (BM ‘18) Founding Member, The Band Camino I Electra Recording Artist Brittany Thomas (BM ‘18) Director of Online Marketing, Beaver Productions Inc. Memphis, TN. Grace Hamm (BM ‘17) GRAMMY U Representative, The Recording Academy, Memphis Chapter Jasmine Hirt (BM ‘16) Facility Coordinator, Germantown Performing Arts Center, Germantown, TN Faculty click here > Ensembles click here > Scholarships click here > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/14/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.