Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Public Health Sciences Degrees Forward Arrow Degrees Undergraduate Degrees & Certificates Forward Arrow Undergraduate Degrees & Certificates Health Sciences, B.S. Undergraduate Public Health Certificate Back Arrow Back Graduate Degrees & Certificates Forward Arrow Graduate Degrees & Certificates Applied Health Research & Evaluation, M.S. Accelerated B.S. to M.S. Degree Program Graduate Certificate in Clinical and Translational Research Applied Health Research & Evaluation, Ph.D. Back Arrow Back Collaborative Degrees Forward Arrow Collaborative Degrees Language and International Health, B.S. Biomedical Data Science & Informatics, M.S. / Ph.D. Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Research Students Alumni & Friends Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Public Health Sciences Degrees show submenu for Degrees Undergraduate Degrees & Certificates show submenu for Undergraduate Degrees & Certificates Health Sciences, B.S. Undergraduate Public Health Certificate Graduate Degrees & Certificates show submenu for Graduate Degrees & Certificates Applied Health Research & Evaluation, M.S. Accelerated B.S. to M.S. Degree Program Graduate Certificate in Clinical and Translational Research Applied Health Research & Evaluation, Ph.D. Collaborative Degrees show submenu for Collaborative Degrees Language and International Health, B.S. Biomedical Data Science & Informatics, M.S. / Ph.D. Research Students Alumni & Friends Clemson Home College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Academics Public Health Sciences Current: Degrees Degrees Health Sciences, B.S. Majoring in health science starts with an introduction to the principles of public health. With each class, you’ll dive into specifics pertaining to your personal interests while keeping a strong focus on the promotion of a healthy population. Students choose one of four concentration areas: Health Services Administration Health Promotion and Behavior Pre-Professional Studies in Health Regardless of your concentration area, we will provide the tools and training that will allow you to succeed in one of the largest industries in the nation. It’s a big claim, but it’s one backed up by Clemson graduates and professors working across the globe in every imaginable health-focused area. Explore Applied Health Research and Evaluation, M.S. / Ph.D. The Department of Public Health Sciences offers a non-thesis M.S. degree in Applied Health Research and Evaluation. The goal of this program is to develop technicians, data analysts, program evaluators, or research associates/coordinators, working in the private and public sectors, with foundational research and evaluation knowledge and skills related to study design, data management, and data analysis. Specifically, graduates will work as integral parts of collaborative research teams who wish to assess the efficacy and effectiveness of programs and interventions, improve the efficiency of health services, and provide data-based evidence to drive informed decision-making and empower positive change in population and healthcare practice. Our Ph.D. degree in Applied Health Research and Evaluation allows graduates to be independent researchers and methodological leaders. The program develops depth and breadth of knowledge in the determinants of health, healthcare systems, research and evaluation design, epidemiology, and quantitative & qualitative methods, making graduates highly competitive for employment in many different work settings. Explore the M.S. Degree Explore the Ph.D. Degree Biomedical Data Science and Informatics, M.S. / Ph.D. Master of Science programis an interdisciplinary program that leverages the broad strength at Clemson spanning computing, engineering, mathematics, biology, public health, and other areas to produce the next generation of data scientists, prepared to manage and analyze big data sources from mobile sensors to genomic and imaging technologies. Graduates will possess the necessary skills for informatics careers in biology, medicine or public health focused on the development of prescriptive analytics from large data sources. Clemson University and the Medical University of South Carolina offer a joint Ph.D. degree in Biomedical Data Science and Informatics. This unique collaboration combines Clemson’s strengths in computing, engineering, and public health with MUSC’s expertise in biomedical sciences to produce the next generation of data scientists, prepared to manage and analyze big data sources in order to improve health in the state and the nation. Graduates will possess marketable skills for informatics careers in biology, medicine, or public health focused on the development of prescriptive analytics from large data sources and will be prepared to lead research programs in academic, healthcare, public health, and industry. Explore Accelerated B.S. to M.S. in Applied Health Research and Evaluation The Department of Public Health Sciences offers an accelerated B.S. to M.S. option to highly qualified undergraduate students in the Health Sciences major. Under this plan, students can reduce the time necessary to earn the B.S. in Health Science and the M.S. in Applied Health Research and Evaluation by applying up to 12 graduate credit hours to both the undergraduate and graduate program requirements. Students enrolled in this plan begin taking graduate courses to satisfy the health electives and guided requirements of the undergraduate curriculum their senior year. Once they have completed the undergraduate requirements, students graduate with a B.S. in Health Science. They continue fulfilling the graduate requirements post-graduation, ensuring a total of 150 credits are earned for both degrees. Once completed, students graduate with an M.S. in Applied Health Research and Evaluation. The total anticipated time frame for the B.S. to M.S. program is 5 years or less (depending upon Advanced Placement and transfer credits). Explore Undergraduate Public Health Certificate The Department of Public Health Sciences is offering an online, nine credit undergraduate-level certificate for undergraduate students enrolled at Clemson University who are not currently majoring in the Health Science (HS) or Language & International Health (L&IH) undergraduate concentrations. The goal of this certificate is to provide basic educational training in core public health concepts and applications for students who intend to apply to graduate programs in public health or desire introductory coursework in public health as preparation for professional schools in health care delivery. Explore Clinical and Translational Research Graduate Certificate Clemson University's Department of Public Health Sciences and Department of Mathematical Sciences, in collaboration with the Prisma-Health Upstate, is now offering a graduate-level certification in clinical and translational research. The goal of this program is to enhance clinical and translational research capabilities of clinicians, research support staff, and other health professionals. The program will be delivered via evening classes at the University Center Greenville in Greenville, South Carolina. Explore Department of Public Health Sciences Copyright © Clemson University Department of Public Health Sciences | 503 Edwards Hall 864-656-5865 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson