Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Home About Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Past practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources Initiatives People Events Blog Site Navigation Home About Land Acknowledgment Programs History Nightingale-Brown House Richard Neutra's "Windshield" House Model Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Black Labor at Nightingale-Brown House Brochure: Slave Labor and the Making of the Nightingale-Brown House Doing Public Humanities Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan DIAP Summary Update 2019-2020 Year in Review Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Past practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Tuition Scholarship & Other Funding Public History of Slavery Fellowship Native American & Indigenous Studies Fellowship Curatorial Fellowships City Year (Americorps) Agreement Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources Initiatives Conferences Exhibitions Gallery Publications Partnerships Digital Projects Suffrage in Rhode Island: A Lippitt Family Perspective Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Public Work: A Public Humanities Podcast Rhode Tour Public Humanities Blog Day of Public Humanities Brown FACADES App Year of the City: The Providence Project People Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisory Board Public Humanities Fellows Current Students Alumni Alumni Directory Alumni Interviews Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops Blog Practicums Practicum experiences play an integral part of the public humanities master's degree. The required summer-long and semester-long practicums provide an opportunity for experiential learning and give students a chance to connect academic learning to the work of a public humanities organization. They also introduce students to experienced professionals who can offer mentorship and help students network with professionals in the field. The selection of practicum sites is limited only by students' imagination, logistics, and funding. In the past years, public humanities MA students worked at these organizations during their summer and semester practicums. Students consult with the Center staff for assistance in identifying a practicum site and working with potential supervisors to shape a work plan that will provide both an educational experience for the student and useful projects for the organization. The Center has limited funds to help defray living and travel expenses associated with practicums. Organizations that want to learn more about practicum opportunities, including the Center's expectations for institutions that sponsor students, should contact Ron Potvin, Assistant Director for Professional Programs. Summer Practicum Summer Practicum is required, but not credited (i.e. students do not register and do not pay for a course credit). This practicum must be completed during the summer following the first year of classes. Students are expected to work full time over the span of 8-10 weeks, totaling 300-375 hours. During this practicum, students participate in an on-line blog, sharing experiences and questions with each other and Center faculty and staff. At the start of fall semester, students present five-minute talks about five things they learned. This reflective practice allows them to connect practical learning with class work and helps shape their second year in the public humanities program. Summer practicum choices are not limited geographically and students have selected placements with organizations in New Zealand, Germany, Sweden, Netherlands, and Hong Kong, as well as numerous historic sites, museums, libraries, and cultural organizations throughout the United States. A satisfactory rating depends upon the quality of work performed at the sponsoring institution and other aspects of the practicum such as blogging and written or oral reports. Watch the video below to see student presentations about the latest (summer 2019) practicums. Presentation from earlier years can be viewed here. Semester Practicum Semester Practicum is required and can be completed during any semester; most students fulfill this requirement during their second year in the program. For the semester practicum, students register for PHUM 2025, and complete approximately 125-150 hours over the span of the semester. A satisfactory rating depends upon the quality of work performed at the sponsoring institution and other aspects of the practicum such as blogging, written reports, and participation in a practicum seminar. Because semester practicum is completed concurrently with classes, students generally arrange positions at organizations in Providence, Boston, or other sites in southern New England. Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Past practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Brown University Box 1880 Nightingale Brown House 357 Benefit Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1177 Fax: 401-863-7777 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top