Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Office of Environmental Health and Safety Programs Training Resources Emergencies SDS Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Emergencies Biological Spill Procedure Chemical Spill Procedure Crisis Management Take Action Be Prepared Report an Incident Know the Plan Contact Us Home Environmental Health and Safety Emergencies Emergency Preparedness Every day many people go to work, take kids to school, farm their land, or go to a sports event. But sometimes the unexpected happens: an earthquake, a fire, a chemical spill, or some other disaster. Emergencies such as these change routines and people suddenly become aware of how fragile their lives can be. Catastrophes disrupt many lives every year and each catastrophe has its own lasting effects. Sometimes people are injured or killed, and sometimes damage to property runs into the billions of dollars. If a catastrophe happens in your area, local government and catastrophe relief organizations will try to assist you, but you still need to be prepared. Local responders may not be able to come to you immediately after a catastrophe or they may need to direct their attention elsewhere. People who prepare for an emergency can reduce the fear, anxiety, and losses that surround the catastrophe. They can know what to do in the event of a fire and where to seek protection from a tornado. These people can be prepared to evacuate their homes, make their visits in public shelters more comfortable, and know how to care for their basic medical needs. Individuals can also reduce the impact of a catastrophe by taking preventative action such as floodproofing or elevating their home, or securing items that could shake loose in an earthquake. These measures can sometimes help avoid the damage all together. You should know how to respond to severe weather or any catastrophe that could occur in your area. You should also be ready to provide for yourself for at least three days. This includes first aid, water, food, and sanitation. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/7/19 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.