Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Urban Education Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Urban Education Certificate (Graduate) Apply Visit Request More Info Urban Education Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Our Faculty Urban Education Graduate Certificate The Urban Education Graduate Certificate program engages students in collaborative, education-focused work with diverse groups of people in urban settings. Develop a deep understanding of urban schools and communities, with a particular emphasis on the economic, historical, political and social factors that shape urban education. Learn to create connections between theory and practice and move beyond stories of urban school failure to analysis of successful approaches and policies. Who Might Be Interested? The program attracts individuals from a variety of backgrounds, including activists, community leaders, educators and parents. Credit Requirements To earn the Urban Education Graduate Certificate, you must complete four graduate-level courses (12 credits) in the College of Education and Human Development. Non-matriculated students may transfer up to nine credits of coursework before enrolling in the certificate program. Classes & Curriculum Topics addressed in the curriculum include current trends in school reform; education policy; the history of urban education; race, class and schools; and theory, practice and program development related to creating and sustaining partnerships between schools, agencies and communities. See the certificate curriculum. Delivery Method All courses are delivered in the classroom on Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia. You can enroll part- or full-time and have up to two years to complete the certificate program. Voluntary Internships Internships give you opportunities to get hands-on experience, refine your understanding of your coursework and make professional contacts who can assist your future career development. Internships are voluntary experiences that take place outside of the program curriculum: students do not receive credit for internships. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Related Degrees Executive EdD in Educational Leadership Policy and Organizational Studies PhD with a concentration in Urban Education Educational Leadership and Policy MEd with a concentration in Urban Education Related Graduate Certificates College Access and Success Diversity Leadership Program Contact Lori Shorr, associate professor of instruction, is the faculty program coordinator for the Urban Education Certificate (Graduate). Phone: 215-204-1950 Email: lori.shorr@temple.edu Our Advisors A faculty program coordinator provides academic support and helps students navigate the certificate program. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-URBE-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Urban Education Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Our Faculty Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info