× Please sign in You need to log in to use the bookmarking feature. Sign In Harvard Business School Sign in to Baker Library Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Search Find Services Ask Browse Databases Collections & Archives Guides Exhibits Find Books, Articles & More More Places HOLLIS Catalog Harvard Library Working Knowledge Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program See all... Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Staff Visiting Researchers Ask Us Ask a Question Fast Answers Policies Staff Directory How Do I... Request HBS Cases Plan A Visit Manage My Data Get Teaching Support Baker Library Databases Ask Us Special Collections Fast Answers All Services Hours Plan Your Visit Exhibits Hollis Working Knowledge HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Campaign Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Search Search Search Home Find Collections & Archives Special Collections Special Collections Bookmark This Special Collections /find/collections-archives/special-collections From its inception, Baker Library has collected rare and unique materials that focus on the evolution of business and industry. 43 651 Special Collections /find/collections-archives/special-collections From its inception, Baker Library has collected rare and unique materials that focus on the evolution of business and industry. 43 651 Add My Librarian Item Filters Special Collections' de Gaspé Beaubien Reading Room is open to all eligible users by appointment. Please contact specialcollectionsref@hbs.edu for additional information on our access policies. Request an Appointment If you are unable to visit to use our collections, please reach out to us at specialcollectionsref@hbs.edu so we can work together to meet your research needs. LIBRARIANS AND ARCHIVISTS ARE AVAILABLE TO: Provide in-depth reference via email, phone, or web conference to determine the scope of your research project and evaluate how staff can best meet your needs remotely Direct you to relevant digital resources and newly available collections Schedule remote access to microfilm collections Assist you in planning future research visits or reproduction requests Baker Library collects and makes available the records of business dating from the 14th century to the present and the records of the Harvard Business School since its founding in 1908. These varied collections include corporate archives, manuscripts, account ledgers, rare books, broadsides, photographs, company annual reports and audiovisual and digital materials, as well as works of art by a diverse range of artists from around the world. While the collections contain extensive materials on American businessmen and leaders from the colonial period to the present, we are actively working to expand both the diversity and global scope of Baker Library’s collections, with a particular focus on acquiring the records of women and Black business leaders. We are also reviewing and engaging deeply with our existing collections in order to highlight materials and works by women, Black, Indigenous, and people of color (BIPOC), as well as enslaved people and immigrants, represented in our holdings. Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion As a research library committed to collecting, preserving and making accessible resources that document the history of business, Baker Library welcomes a wide range of researchers to explore our rich collections. As members of the HBS community, we embrace the actions outlined in HBS’s action plan for Advancing Racial Equity & Diversity. As members of the Harvard Library community, we stand in unity with Our Responsibilities: A Message from Martha Whitehead. Within Baker Library Special Collections, we recognize that we must make clear how we intend to take meaningful action against structural racism and inequality. To that end we will: Address any offensive or harmful language in our collection descriptions and cataloging and make those descriptions more conscious and inclusive by revising our descriptive and cataloging practices going forward using our Guiding Principles for Conscious and Inclusive Description; Extend access to our collections through digitization and enhanced web content; Increase the diversity of our collections starting with the contemporary business archival collecting program by seeking out the records of Black leaders in business and entrepreneurs, preserving their legacy, and providing access to primary data for scholars and practitioners worldwide. We welcome comments and suggestions on this statement and our work at specialcollectionsref@hbs.edu. November 2021 NEW EXHIBIT From Inquiry to Action: Harvard Business School & the Case Method See additional exhibit collection guides Special Collections Ask Us Visit Us Collecting Areas Digital Resources Search Collections Exhibits Copyright and Citations Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Research Fellowships at Baker Library Special Collections Home OUR SERVICES Reproductions Course Support Research Back to top Today's HoursAll Hours Connect with Baker Map & Contacts Know Before You Go Library Spaces Staff Directory About the Library B4B Product Catalog Books@Baker Annual Reports Harvard Business School Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6040 Email: infoservices@hbs.edu Maps and Directions Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes All Social Media Jobs Trademarks Site Map Harvard University Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 President & Fellows of Harvard College.