Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift All articles related to "health systems": Related Topics health costs health disparities health reform human trafficking Student’s journey to U.S. to save daughter sparks a career in public health In a recent interview, Oana Geambasu described how she unintentionally became an adviser to Romania’s health minister, and what it means to her to be the country’s first graduate from the School in almost 100 years. Using patient safety as tool to improve health inequalities Viewing health inequalities through the lens of patient safety could help health care professionals and organizations define concrete steps to improve the care and outcomes of people in marginalized ethnic populations, according to an analysis co-authored by Cian… Getting to know … Brandon Alexander Anthony, MPH ’22 Armed with degrees in systems engineering, business, and epidemiology, Brandon Alexander Anthony, MPH '22, hopes to launch a company that helps health systems design better services for patients of color, LGBTQ patients, and other marginalized groups. Both rich and poor countries saw essential health services decline during COVID Many essential health services—including cancer and tuberculosis screenings, HIV testing, maternal health services, and child vaccinations—declined during the COVID-19 pandemic in poor and rich countries alike around the globe, according to a new study co-authored by Harvard Chan… A prescription for future pandemics WHO Director-General Tedros Ghebreyesus, in conversation with Harvard Chan School Dean Michelle Williams, outlined steps to combat the “confusion and incoherence” that has characterized the COVID-19 pandemic response. As Omicron wanes, what is the state of the pandemic? What will the future of SARS-CoV-2 look like, and what should we as a community consider in our response to changing conditions? Harvard Chan School's Yonatan Grad offers thoughts in this Q&A. Political affiliation may have swayed prescribing of ineffective COVID drugs For immediate release: February 18, 2022 Boston, MA – Two treatments that have been shown to be ineffective against COVID-19—hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin—were more heavily prescribed in the latter part of 2020 in U.S. counties with a higher Republican… Research compares trajectories of high-need patients across nations A new set of papers takes an in-depth look at healthcare spending, use of hospitals and rehabs, and health outcomes across 11 countries for high-need, high-cost patients—those who are frail and have multiple chronic conditions. A global health ‘conductor’ returns to Harvard Chan School Muhammad Pate, a former Nigerian health minister, plans to explore trends that will shape the future of global health, and share his perspective as a practitioner September 1, 2021—When Muhammad Pate became head of Nigeria’s National Primary Health… Perspective: The intersection of public health and clinical medicine is changing To achieve the World Health Organization’s goal of helping provide “the highest attainable standard of health” for individuals, it’s time to rethink the divisions between public health and clinical medicine, especially preventive medicine, according to an August 5,… Pagination navigation 1 2 3 … 27 28 29 Author add969 Posted on August 26, 2016 May 29, 2019 Categories Uncategorized Related Articles microbiome Off the Cuff: Curtis Huttenhower Renewal of NIEHS grant paves way for new research on how complex environmental exposures affect health New findings from Human Microbiome Project reveal how microbiome is disrupted during inflammatory bowel disease More on this topic Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College