COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU Fast Facts: Campus Expansion WSU Fast Facts Categories: Fast Facts Home Athletics Applied Learning Barton School of Business Campus Expansion College of Applied Studies College of Engineering College of Fine Arts College of Health Professions University Dashboards Fairmount College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Graduate School Honors College College of Innovation and Design Student Life Wichita Campus Expansion Fast Facts Situated on 120 acres, Wichita State University’s newest part of campus is designed as an interconnected community of partnerships where organizations establish operations and reap the rewards of the university’s vast resources, laboratories that give students access to real-world applications and the training needed to effortlessly assimilate into the workforce, a community makerspace that gives both students and non-students alike access to the technology and services that helps facilitate product development and mixed-use areas that provides everyone with a place to eat, sleep, play, shop and share. The Airbus Americas Engineering building, our first partnership building, opened in 2017. It is home to hundreds of engineering professionals and opportunities for students to build professional networks and resumes while still in school. The GoCreate makerspace gives students and inventors throughout the community access to the state-of-the-art labs, 3-D printing, commercial manufacturing technology and industry expertise to bring their ideas to life. The Law Enforcement Training Center combines high-tech training facilities for area law enforcement. In addition, the facility houses WSU’s Criminal Justice department, providing academic expertise to law enforcement and applied learning opportunities for students. The Experiential Engineering Building is home to 24 labs and the GoCreate Makerspace and provides an environment for hands-on learning, creativity and entrepreneurship. Tenants include Dassault Systemes, Hexagon Manufacturing Intelligence and Youth Entrepreneuers The Flats at WSU is a fully furnished 112-unit apartment complex with room for 285 residents, with all-inclusive rates and free reserved parking. The Health and Wellness Center, in partnership with the Greater Wichita YMCA, will consolidate WSU’s Student Health Services, Counseling and Testing Center and YMCA fitness center all in one location. Eat, stay and shop at Braeburn Square—a new 20-acre development featuring a Starbucks—with hotel, restaurants and retail coming soon. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©