Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Related Links Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close HOME Admission Apply International Applicants In This Section Admission Overview Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Applying as an International Student Boston College, a university located in the Boston suburb of Chestnut Hill, is home to 1,725 international students. Boston College's 9,445 undergraduates come from diverse backgrounds and perspectives, leading to a vibrant and enriching campus atmosphere. A student is considered an international applicant if he or she is not a U.S. citizen or U.S. permanent resident. With the few exceptions listed below, international students must submit the same application credentials as other first-year or transfer students. Standardized Test Scores & English Proficiency Exams Boston College has adopted a test-optional policy for first-year applicants to the Classes of 2027. This policy does not include English proficiency examinations. Learn more here. In addition to submitting ACT or SAT scores, Boston College requires that non-U.S. citizens submit TOEFL (CEEB Code: 3083), IELTS, or Duolingo English Test examination scores. TOEFL ITP Plus, TOEFL iBT Home Edition, TOEFL Essentials, and IELTS Indicator will not be accepted. If you do not have access to a testing center, please register for the Duolingo English Test. Please note that Boston College does not superscore English proficiency exams and TOEFL MyBest Score reports are not considered in the evaluation process. The English proficiency requirement can be waived if an applicant meets at least one of the following three options: English is your native language; You have attended a U.S. high school or another majority native English speaking country for at least three years, and you are enrolled in a traditional academic curriculum without ESOL coursework; or You score 650 or above on the SAT EBRW or 29 or better on the ACT English section. Testing Recommendations Minimum scores of 100 on the iBT, 7.5 on the IELTS, or 125 on the Duolingo English Test are recommended. Play Associate Director David Weber English Proficiency Supplements Students attending a national school in China are encouraged to schedule an interview with InitialView. While not required, a video interview allows candidates the opportunity to demonstrate English proficiency and communication skills to the Admission Committee. Applicants should submit InitialView results by November 15 for Early Decision I and January 15 for Early Decision II and Regular Decision. Financial Aid Boston College is unable to provide need-based financial aid to students who are not U.S. citizens or U.S. permanent residents. Therefore, international students should be prepared to finance the full cost of their Boston College education. Once admitted, international students will receive a link to the Boston College Certification of Finances form. This form will outline the costs of attending Boston College for the upcoming year. I-20 forms will not be mailed to admitted students until they have verified that they can fully meet the financial obligations outlined in the Certification of Finances. Boston College only accepts the Certification of Finances form for admitted international students. Therefore, applicants who have not yet received an admission decision should not send this form. All international students who do hold U.S. citizenship or a Green Card are fully eligible to receive financial aid. Breakdown of expenses for the 2022-2023 academic year Item Cost Undergraduate Tuition $62,950 Mandatory Fees for Resident Student (Campus Health Infirmary & Student Activity Fees) $1,226 Room and Board $16,120 Total Tuition, Fees, Room, and Board* $80,296 *Please note that freshmen pay a one-time required charge of $600 for First Year Orientation and their student ID. **Estimated cost for books and incidental items is $3,150 International Student Brochure 55 Countries our students call home 845 Undergraduate international students 219 International faculty and research scholars Financial Aid Boston College is unable to provide need-based financial aid to international citizens. Therefore, non-U.S. citizens should be prepared to finance the full cost of their Boston College education. Visit our Tuition and Financial Aid page for international students to learn more about financing a Boston College education. Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College