Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University The Office of the Registrar Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Course Catalog Forms Home Welcome Our Mission Contact Us Students General Information Student Forms Degree Planning Academic Classification Cancelled Courses/Sections Catalog & Degree Programs Course Descriptions Course Prerequisites Cross-Listed Courses Permission Required Courses Restricted Courses/Sections Schedule of Classes (Online Search) Schedule of Classes (PDF) Schedule of Classes (Search Tips) Using the University Catalog (Video) How to Run a Degree Audit (Students) Registration Getting Started with Registration AccessPlus Registration Process AccessPlus Registration Process (Video) Add/Drop (Schedule Changes) Auditing Courses Cancel Registration Consortium Holds Credit Limits Full-Time/Part-Time Status Schedule Planner/Class Search How to Use Schedule Planner Registration Start Dates Registration Holds Pass/Not Pass Grading Student Schedule Change Form - Tutorial Degree Audit How to Run a Degree Audit (Students) FAQ Reentry, Returning Students Reinstatement after Academic Dismissal Reentering or Returning Graduate Students Reentering or Returning International Students Reentering or Returning Undergraduate Students Transfer Students Reverse Credit Transfer Transfer Credit Evaluation Distance Education Exams Fall Night Exams Fall Final Exams Spring Final Exams Spring Night Exams Dead Week Grades Grade Reports on AccessPlus Grading System/Scale GPA Calculator Dean's List & Honoraries FAQs Deans List Release Veterans Education Benefits Types of Benefits Frequently Asked Questions Additional Veterans Resources Post Secondary Enrollment (PSEO) Frequently Asked Questions Textbook & Fee Information Order an Official Transcript Verification/Proof of Enrollment Full & Half Time Status Good Student Discount Business & Professional Organizations Academic Withdrawal Standard Withdrawal Medical Withdrawal Medical Documentation Guidelines Medical Withdrawal Sample Provider Letters Out of Term Withdrawal Tuition Appeal Withdrawal Terminology Withdrawal Policy Individuals Involved with Withdrawals U.S. Diversity and International Perspectives International Perspective Courses U.S. Diversity Courses Honors Seminars Approved Transfer Courses Archived Lists IP Credit for Veterans Other Resources Campus Builidings Soar in 4 Textbook Information Registrar Video Library Faculty & Staff General Information ADIN Schedule Guide Dean's List Department Test-Outs Enrollment Statistics Graduation Lists Schedule Changes Schedule of Classes (PDFs) Registrar Contact Information Catalog & Course Editing (yearly) Timeline College Reports Guides & Tutorials Quick Links Catalog & Courses Course Description Guidelines Objections Catalog Editor Checklist Catalog Editing Handouts and Presentations Summer Editing Course Offerings Information Class Lists AccessPlus Grade Reporting Create an Email List Degree Audit Advisor Instructions Grade Processing Fianl Grade Submit and Class List Information Grade Report Forms Grade Report Tutorial F Grade Processing Advisor Graduation Information Advisor Early Degree Audit Review for Graduating Seniors Early Degree Audit Review Dates Student Records Policies FERPA - Training FERPA - Sharing Student Information (PII) FERPA - What Faculty and Staff Need to Know Systems Access Codebook Department Contacts Faculty & Staff Forms Administrative Schedule Change Form Tutorial Student Schedule Change Form Tutorial Access to Student Systems Mass Email Request Registrar Data Request Academic Calendars Academic Calendar University Calendar Department Dates (2021-2022) Department Dates (2022-2023) Academic Dates to 2027 Registration Start Dates Past Calendars Department Dates (2020-2021) Department Dates (2019-2020) Department Dates (2018-2019) Department Dates (2016-2018) Department Dates (2015-2017) Calendar Principles Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fees Mandatory Fees Program Specific Fees Course Fees Tuition Adjustment Deadlines Tuition FAQs Expenses Estimator Financial Aid Billing and Payments Previous Term Fees Fee Exceptions Graduation Resources Enrollment Statistics University Summary Enrollment by Major or Department Multicultural Summary Sex, Ethnicity & Residence Reports Headcount & FTE Policies FERPA Training FERPA Classroom Recordings FERPA - Sharing Student Information (PII) AccessPlus & Confidentiality Name and Sex Marker Change Policies Forms Student Forms Faculty & Staff Forms Residency Application for Admission & Tuition AccessPlus Information Academic Help Academic Success Center Academic Help & Appeals Academic Probation Policy Writing & Media Center Veterans Center Dean's List & Honoraries FAQs Download PDF: Fall 2021 Dean's List Frequently Asked Questions How do I know if I qualify for the Dean's List (undergraduates)? Is information on the Dean's List sent to my hometown newspaper? What GPA do I need to graduate with distinction (undergraduate)? I was just inducted into an honorary. Will it show on my transcript? Dean's List Qualifications Each semester the university issues a Dean's List comprised of those students who have carried at least 12-credit hours of graded or S-F courses with a 3.50 GPA or above for the semester. Courses taken on a P-NP basis do not count as part of the 12-credit hour requirement. The 12-credit hour requirement excludes "P" (Pass) and "I" (Incomplete) marks; "S" (Satisfactory) grades and designated repeat are counted; however, R-credit courses with "S" grades do not count into the number of credit hours. No Dean's List is issued for the summer session. *Due to COVID 19, the spring 2020 Dean's List used the following criteria: A minimum of 9-credit hours of graded or S-F courses with a 3.50 GPA or above for the semester. Courses taken on a P/NP grading basis do not count as part of the 9-credit hours requirement. How Dean's List information is released The Dean’s List information is sent to the parent’s hometown newspaper approximately three-four weeks after the term. It is up to the discretion of the newspaper editor at what point they wish to publish the information. The Dean’s List is not sent to addresses outside of the United States. Please note: If a student has checked the option for "no information release" in AccessPlus, their information will not be released. The cut off dates for the university to send information to newspapers is July 1 for the spring Dean's List and Feb. 1 for the fall Dean's List. After these dates, it will be up to the student to contact their respective newspapers and they can refer to the Dean's List posted on this site and/or the email or letter they receive from their college. For more information, contact the Office of the Registrar, 214 Enrollment Services Center, (515) 294-1840; or News Service at (515) 294-4777. Graduation with Distinction At Iowa State University, candidates for graduation with distinction must have completed 60 semester credits of coursework at ISU at the time they graduate, including a minimum of 50 graded credits. Those graduating summa cum laude (with highest distinction) have earned a grade-point average of 3.90 or higher; magna cum laude (with great distinction) have a grade-point average of 3.70 to 3.89; or cum laude (with distinction) have a grade-point average 3.50 to 3.69. Grade-point averages are based on a 4.0 scale. In addition to the notation in the commencement program, this recognition appears on the official transcript and diploma. The University Honors Program is an individually planned program of study designed to provide greater depth and breadth of scholarship than the regular curriculum. For more information, contact the graduation area, Office of the Registrar, 210A Enrollment Services Center, 294-1840. Honoraries The top 2% of graduating seniors receive a notation on the transcript. In addition, many honoraries also are noted on the transcript. The current list is available from the Student Activities Center . Criteria for inclusion of honors society on the transcript: needs to be a registered student organization at ISU must base their membership on academic achievement must promote and recognize academic achievement and related standards of excellence on campus must be recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies Requests for honor societies to go on transcripts are reviewed by a committee appointed by the Provost (includes the Registrar). Honoraries are placed on the transcript as notations in the following format: CARDINAL KEY 2016 - 2017 Office of the Registrar Office of the Registrar 214 Enrollment Services Center 2433 Union Dr. Ames, IA 50011-2042 registrar@iastate.edu 515-294-1840 - Phone 515-686-6022- Fax Facebook Twitter Youtube Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information