Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Natural Sciences & Mathematics Main Navigation About Us Academics Commencement Events News Student Success Support the College Undergraduate Research MH-2 Renovations NSM Awards Reception Opportunity Center for Science and Mathematics Students (OCSAMS) OCSAMS provides FREE tutoring for students on a drop-in basis in Biology, Chemistry, Biochemistry and Physics. Tutoring is available for many lower division core courses, as well as in a number of upper division courses based on expertise of tutors. CLICK HERE for Tutoring Schedule OCSAMS is a welcoming community space that offers: Tutors - endorsed by faculty and knowledgeable in multiple subjects Group or individual study sessions Computers Listings of research opportunities, internships, graduate assistantships and careers Study areas, including a quiet study room Copy machine – pay to copy with your Titan Card Printer – pay to print with your Titan Card Interactive CDs to aid in the learning process A welcoming community of scholars, peers and friends Assistant Dean for Student Affairs available to help connect you with many valuable resources and opportunities in the College of NSM and campus-wide. This site is maintained by College of Natural Sciences & Mathematics. Last Published 1/24/20 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact tlo@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.3.9 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.