Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Professional & Continuing Education Continuing Education right arrow down arrow Contact Us OLLI right arrow down arrow About OLLI right arrow down arrow Locations Contact Us History, Mission & Vision Board of Trustees FAQs Classes & Registration Member Resources right arrow down arrow Member Handbook Class Handouts Teach for OLLI right arrow down arrow Moderator Info and Resources Support right arrow down arrow OLLI Donors Communiversity right arrow down arrow COURSES right arrow down arrow Arts & Handicrafts right arrow down arrow Floral Arranging Beginning Stained Glass Frame Loom Weaving Mosaics Wire Jewelry: Earrings Drawing Comics Learn to Crochet Art History at CAM Candlemaking Industrial Sewing Intro to Stained Glass Learn to Knit 1 & 2 Sketchbook Workshop Woodworking Computerized Woodworking Soldering & Circuits Laser Cutting & Engraving Soap Making Embroidery Summer Anklet Jewelry Mixed Media Acrylic Painting Color Mixing Intro to Watercolor Paint the Masters: Monet Paint the Masters: Renoir Paint the Masters: Van Gogh Painting Your Pet's Portrait Plein Air Painting Watercolor Florals Drawing Level 1 & 2 Music & Dance right arrow down arrow Ukulele : Level 1 & 2 Guitar: Level 1 & 2 Argentine Tango Dance Fiddling: Level 1 & 2 Mandolin: Level 1 & 2 Country Two-Step Wedding Dance Workshop Belly Dance Special Interest & History right arrow down arrow Cincinnati's Lost Architects Detective Series: 60s Murders History of FBI Cincinnati Chili Pyramid Hill Riding Tour Civil War: Morgan's Raid Cincinnati Mural Tour Photography right arrow down arrow Smartphone Photography 1 & 2 Photography: Level 1 & 2 Intermediate Photography Photo Retouching Fitness & Health right arrow down arrow Tai Chi Zumba & Bootcamp Lite Posture: Alexander Technique Belly Dancing Personal Development right arrow down arrow Insight Meditation Introduction to Voice Overs Makeup for Summer Journaling for Stress Relief How to Buy a Used Car Improv! Acting Personal Colors for Fashion Create Life You Love Personal Energy System Astrology Birthchart Care for Aging Skin Angel Cards Workshop Food & Drink right arrow down arrow Mozzarella Cheese Making Soft Cheese Making Sourdough Bread Making Winemaking at Home Feta Cheese Making Bourbon History & Tasting Home & Garden right arrow down arrow Organize Your Home Cactus & Succulent Centerpiece Staghorn Fern Wall Art Terrarium Lamps DIY Home Repairs Spring Ornithology Native Plant Tour Moss & Air Fern Wall Art Growing an Herb Garden Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Language right arrow down arrow Spanish: Level 1 Italian Level 1 & 2 Discover Sign Language Conversational French German: Level 1 & 2 English as a Second Language Sports right arrow down arrow Golf for All Levels Nature & Science right arrow down arrow Behind the Scenes at the Observatory Spring Birdwatching Cincinnati Moundbuilders Native Plant Tour Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Plants of Ohio Business & Finance right arrow down arrow Basic Computer Skills Financial Literacy Job Search Estate Planning Buying Your First Home Real Estate Investment Gift Certificates Travel right arrow down arrow Travel Health Travel Solo for Women Travel in Italy Lifelong Learning Online Ways to Register Location of Courses Frequently Asked Questions Suggest a Class Class Evaluation Teach a Class Test Prep right arrow down arrow LSAT TOEFL GRE/GMAT ACT SAT MCAT College Essay Writing CompTIA® Certification Prep Continuing Education for Teachers right arrow down arrow Arlitt Professional Educator Learning Series (APELS) Gifted Education Professional Development K-12 Blended & Beyond Teaching Learning Series Remote Teaching Learning Webinars Professional Development right arrow down arrow Healthcare & Fitness right arrow down arrow NASM Certified Personal Trainer Pharmacy Technician Certified Physical Therapy Aide Certified Nutrition Coach Business Management & Operations right arrow down arrow Lean Six Sigma Call Center Supervisor Certified Administrative Professional HVAC/R Training Marketing Technology Skills & Applications right arrow down arrow Adobe Certification Courses Microsoft Excel Google IT Support IT Fundamentals ITIL v4 Framework DevOps Certification Autodesk Revit Microsoft Power Platform School of IT: Tech Workforce Development right arrow down arrow Azure Cloud Technology Cybersecurity Bootcamp Networking Bootcamp Microsoft Excel Certification Project Management Certification (CAPM®) IMAP - Microcredentials Aspire Talent Acceleration Program right arrow down arrow For Employer Partners For Adult Learners Student Resources Home » About UC » Office of Professional and Continuing Education » Test Prep » LSAT Exam Prep Set Navigation title in component LSAT TOEFL GRE/GMAT ACT SAT MCAT College Essay Writing CompTIA® Certification Prep LSAT The key to success on the Law School Admission Test is practice, strategy and timing. This program provides you with the personalized touch of a highly experienced, nationally recognized test prep specialist. We offer two LSAT prep options with Barron’s LSAT author and instructor Jay Cutts. LSAT Personal Coaching with classroom option: one-on-one expert guidance with lecture material, weekly assignments, and a customized study program. Special Prelaw Intensive with classroom option: guided, self-paced LSAT and admissions support online program with a live mentor. Both programs also allow you to attend a live-online, 5-week, 15-hour classroom program if and when available. LSAT Personal Coaching with classroom-style option Register Course Dates: Start at any time. Your registration is good for 12 months. Cost: $1,250 Instructor: Jay Cutts Course Overview: You have up to 30 hours of personal coaching on all aspects of the LSAT. Up to one hour of the allotted hours can be used for law school admissions issues other than the LSAT. Enrollment in this program also entitles you to attend a live-online, 5-week, 15-hour classroom program offered by Cutts Graduate Reviews, typically given in June or Sept-Oct, subject to availability. Why this program? This is an highly-effective and affordable program that provides you with the personalized touch of an uniquely experienced, nationally recognized test prep specialist. What is Coaching? Coaching is the most personalized and direct way to master the LSAT. Most students work with Mr. Cutts once or twice a week by phone or video chat where you will receive specific assignments, review your assignments, and go over actual test questions to improve your skills. Your timing and testing strategies will be reviewed and you will be provided with personalized instruction. Mr. Cutts will direct your study plan and make sure you are staying on track. You will have ample opportunity to ask any questions you have about applying successfully to your graduate program. Additional Course Details: right arrow down arrow This program prepares students for the Law School Admissions Test (LSAT). The course covers timing strategy and problem-solving strategies for the Reading Comprehension, Logical Reasoning, and Analytical Reasoning sections of the test, as well as for the essay. You will learn how to analyze logic, including if/then statements and deductive and inductive reasoning. You will learn to identify the main types of logical reasoning, including analogy, cause and effect, and statistical arguments. You will learn to identify faulty argument types, including argument against the person, false analogy, false cause, ambiguity, circular reasoning, and false appeal to authority. You will learn how to skim Reading Comprehension passages for structure and tools for distinguishing between two very close answer choices. You will develop a systematic approach for organizing Analytical Reasoning information, how to create a powerful diagram, and how to recognize the main types of Analytical Reasoning questions. You will learn how to maximize your use of time on the test, how to avoid the most common timing pitfalls, and how to gain significant extra points through timing strategy. The strategies taught in this program have been tested and refined over 30 years of test prep experience with over a thousand students worldwide. Registration in this course includes registration in the STEPS to the LSAT program, an online study system. STEPS also helps you connect with study partners. The course includes up to thirty hours of personal coaching help outside of class for a period of twelve months from the start of the course. LSAT Special Prelaw Intensive (SPI) with classroom-style option Register Instructor: Jay Cutts Cost: $695 Choose Your Course Dates: Spring or Early Summer: Work with the SPI mentor for 10 weeks. Continue with the study materials for as long as you need. If available, you may take one of the summer or fall 5-week classroom-style series. Late Summer or Fall: Work with the SPI mentor for 10 weeks. Continue with the study materials for as long as you need. If available, you may take the fall 5-week classroom-style series. Course Overview: This course prepares students for the LSAT and for creating a successful application. The program was developed by Barron’s LSAT author Jay Cutts, a 30-year specialist in the LSAT and law school admissions. This is self-paced study support program with advanced online study materials, daily assignments, and access to study partners. For each of your first ten weeks you have weekly check-ins with the SPI mentor. Enrollment in this program also entitles you to attend a live-online, 5-week, 15-hour classroom program, typically given in June or Sept-Oct, subject to availability. The SPI program does not include any coaching except during the 5-week classroom series, if available. During the 5-week session you have up to two hours of coaching with the instructor. You can also enroll in the LSAT Personal Coaching program for more advanced help. Additional Course Details: right arrow down arrow The course consists of several parts: Special Prelaw Intensive (SPI). Your web dashboard provides you with an eight-week, day by day plan of study, along with other support materials, including access to study partners, and a library of nearly 300 recorded coaching sessions. You also study how to write a convincing personal statement and prepare a powerful application. For your first ten weeks, a personal mentor checks in with you briefly each week to guide your study. (The mentor does not coach you on the LSAT.) Free Summer or Fall live classroom-style prep classes. Enrollment in the SPI program allows you to attend one summer or fall classroom-style LSAT series offered separately by Cutts Graduate Reviews. These classes are independent of your school’s Continuing Education department. You meet once a week for five weeks for a three-hour hands-on study class taught by a senior instructor trained by Mr. Cutts. You can attend both the summer and fall sessions. Classes are via Zoom. The offering of classes is subject to availability and is not guaranteed. Two hours of personal coaching with the classroom instructor during a 5-week classroom-style series, if available. Course Materials: Order Course Materials: Barron’s LSAT, Ten Actual Official LSATs (Test 7-18), 10 New Actual Official LSATs (Tests 52-61), Ten Actual Official LSATs Volume V (Tests 62-71). View LSAT Dates, Deadlines & Score Release Dates and other information about the digital LSAT. About Your Instructor Jay Cutts Director, Cutts Graduate Reviews, Lead Author Barron's LSAT Prep Book Jay Cutts is the lead author of the Barron's LSAT and MCAT prep books and a 30-year test prep and admissions expert. He specializes in individualized instruction and advanced strategies for math, test anxiety, and problem-solving. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top