Skip to main content Restrict my search to The Honors College Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search The Office of Undergraduate Research and Major Awards About Staff News & Events Publications with Undergraduate Co-Authors Contact Us OURMA Programs Action Research in Communities Program Houston Early Research Experience (HERE) Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship Provost's Undergraduate Research Scholarship Mellon Research Scholars Program Houston Scholars Research for Aspiring Coogs in the Humanities Undergraduate Research Day Honors Thesis Fellowships Calendar of Deadlines Featured Scholarships Scholarship Search Scholar Profiles Research Resources Getting Started in Research Research Positions at UH Featured Research Opportunities Undergraduate Research Travel Fellowship Get Involved with Research COVID-19 Guidance for Undergraduate Researchers Faculty Resources Undergraduate Research Mentor Awards List Your Research Opportunity Poster and Easel Reservation UH Home The Honors College The Office of Undergraduate Research and Major Awards OUR Archive Learning Through Discovery QEP Overview The Office of Undergraduate Research and Major Awards OUR Programs Program Overview Scholarships & External Opportunities Faculty Resources About Research Resources Quality Enhancement Plan (QEP) Learning Through Discovery Initiative: 2008-2013 The Learning through Discovery initiative was created in 2008 to implement the UH Quality Enhancement Plan (QEP). The Office of Undergraduate Discovery Programs was created to administer this initiative, and functioned under the aegis of the Office of the Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost. Through a network of UH faculty and staff, alumni and mentors, and business and non-profit organizations, the initiative promoted a research culture by 1) providing research skills and training, and 2) expanding student research opportunities both on and off campus for all undergraduate students. The University of Houston embraced the QEP as an opportunity for transformative change. UH QEP Objectives In 2008, the University of Houston developed the Discovery-based Learning: Transforming the Undergraduate Experience through Research initiative, a Quality Enhancement Plan to promote a teaching and learning culture supportive of research in all disciplines for undergraduate students. The plan focused on two key areas 1) to expand research opportunities, and 2) to develop student research-related skills. The program implementation was led by the Learning through Discovery (QEP) office in collaboration with faculty, UH Libraries, UH Writing Center, Educational Technology, Faculty Development & Instructional Support, the Office of Undergraduate Research, and Institutional Effectiveness. Results of QEP Initiative The University of Houston’s QEP implementation resulted in an enhanced learning environment for undergraduates. Lessons learned include: Student learning outcomes can be enhanced through a targeted student success initiative. A multi-tiered approach to QEP implementation results in broader impact among the student population. A QEP Curriculum Grant Program is a successful model for sustainable change across the colleges. Faculty partners and resource collaborators should be engaged during QEP planning and implementation. Faculty development activities facilitate sharing of best practices and support effective pedagogy. See also: QEP Programs QEP Faculty Testimonials M.D. Anderson Library 4333 University Drive, Rm 212 Houston, TX 77204-2001 713.743.9010 voice 713.743.9015 fax 1.888.827.0366 (toll-free) honors@uh.edu Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Bookstore Libraries Parking Human Resources Jobs at UH A-Z Offices Directories Emergency Libraries President Social Media Policies Fraud Reporting Title IX - Sexual Conduct Homeland Security TRAIL State of Texas ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies