COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert Student and Employee COVID-19 Testing Current WSU students, faculty and staff can now walk in for a free COVID-19 test at Student Health Services. If you have pre registered through MDL you can enter through the Wesley clinic door on the east side of the building. For registration information visit our COVID-19 testing page. Current Students and their Parents Section Menu COVID-19 Response Home University Announcements Current Students Guide Future Shockers Guide WSU Employees and Supervisors Guide Instructors FAQ Index of FAQ Questions COVID-19 Vaccination Information COVID-19 Research Student Health COVID-19 Page COVID-19 Self-Observation questionnaires COVID-19 Dashboard Timeline of WSU's COVID response Student Guide What students can expect going forward * Updated March 3, 2022 * As has been the case since the beginning of this pandemic, the university's top priority and focus is the health, safety and well-being of our campus community while delivering a high-quality learning environment. Below is a guide to the spring 2022 semester. Frequently Asked Questions are located below this guide. Your learning experience Wichita State will begin the spring semester as scheduled on the dates and in the delivery option listed in the spring schedule of courses. You should anticipate your course will be delivered in the delivery mode assigned to the course in the course catalog. However, we also realize that these are extraordinary circumstances and anticipate that there will be situations throughout the semester that will require us to adapt and make temporary changes. These situations will be addressed as they arise. Please be sure to check your email and course notifications often so you stay informed of any potential changes to your course delivery or course expectations. Also stay in close contact with your instructors if you experience any changes that might affect your attendance and/or ability to complete coursework. Course codes for the spring 2022 semester Fully Online - Internet Instruction Synchronous (IIS): Internet Instruction Synchronous courses require some form of “live” virtual class times where attendance is required for discussion, presentations and labs. IIS may be a good option for students new to college and for those who do best with live lectures and enjoy social settings. Fully Online - Internet Instruction Asynchronous (IIE): Internet Instruction Asynchronous courses are designed by the instructor to be self-managed for studies, learning and demonstration of learning. While time management is flexible, the course may require scheduled benchmarks such as quizzes and projects. Hybrid Online (HYO): All course materials delivered online, but with tests given in-person (on campus or at a remote testing site). Hybrid (HYB): Courses with mixed delivery, with some in-person course work and some online coursework. Go to the Registrar's Instructional Methods page for further information about course types. Health and safety Self-Checks Before Coming to Campus All members of the campus community are encouraged to continue monitoring your health, checking for temperature if you feel you have a fever, and using the COVID-19 Self-Observation Questionnaire before coming to campus or leaving your dorm room. Reduced-price thermometers are for sale at Student Health Services in a limited supply. For more information on what to do if you have symptoms or think you have been exposed, please visit the Student Health Services website or contact your health care provider. Responsibilities While on Campus * Updated March 3, 2022 * In accordance with recently updated guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, effective Friday, March 4, masks will no longer be required for students, employees or visitors, regardless of vaccination status, while on or in Wichita State University premises or while attending campus activities or athletic events (unless otherwise noted). This includes all indoor and outdoor campus locations. The university continues to strongly recommend that all individuals engage in COVID-healthy behaviors including, but not limited to, being vaccinated if able, wearing a mask where social distancing is not possible, testing, and staying home if you feel ill. COVID testing and vaccines are readily available at no charge to WSU students and employees at the WSU Student Wellness Center. No appointment is necessary. Additional information about the vaccine and available locations can be found at www.vaccines.gov. For more information about testing sites, please visit the Sedgwick County Health Department’s webpage. Although the university is rescinding all campus-wide mask mandates, please keep in mind that, in certain cases, there may be programmatic or facility requirements dictating the wearing of d — for example, in our patient-serving clinics or students on clinical practicums and rotations, or in those instances where close contact cannot be avoided and additional precautions may be warranted. Please consult with your supervisor and/or instructor for further instructions, and be sure to follow all posted facility requirements. These measures will help to continue limiting the spread of this virus, even if you have been vaccinated: Practice physical distancing; Wear a face mask; Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds (if soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer); avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed hands; Avoid close contact with people who are sick and put distance between yourself and others; Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, and then throw the tissue in the trash; and Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces in your personal space. Emotional wellness We understand the challenges you are facing can be stressful and overwhelming. Your mental health is important and we encourage you to take advantage of the services that are available to you as a student at Wichita State University. Counseling and Prevention Services offers mental health counseling for individuals, couples and group therapy to enrolled students. To set an in-person or Zoom appointment, go to the Student Wellness Center inside the Steve Clark YMCA or call 316-978-4792 and ask to meet with a counselor. Keep up with what our counselors are doing at @ShockersCAPS on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. If you are in crisis, please reach out to the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 800-273-8255 or text the Crisis Text Line at 741-741. For emergencies, please dial 911. The COVID-19 pandemic is a complex, challenging and fluid situation that continues to evolve rapidly. Guidance for responding continues to change, sometimes on a daily basis. We will do our best to communicate further updates as they become available. However, please also continue to check your student email and our COVID-19 webpage for the most current information. COVID-19 Vaccinations, Testing and Tracking VIDEO: I Am Vaccinated Because... COVID-19 Vaccinations at WSU We know that vaccinations continue to be the best weapon against COVID-19 as we work together to move past this pandemic. We encourage everyone to get a vaccine, including a booster, if you are able. Vaccines are available through the Sedgwick County Health Department and several pharmacies and clinics. To learn more about vaccine locations, visit the CDC vaccine finder. COVID-19 Testing All faculty and staff have access to free COVID-19 testing through Student Health Services. You no longer need an appointment to be tested. The Student Wellness Center inside the Steve Clark YMCA is open for walk-in testing. Get more information about testing You can also see other testing options by visiting the Sedgwick County testing website. Isolation / quarantine WSU is following updated CDC guidance for COVID-19 isolation and quarantine measures for employees and students. Current guidelines include an isolation period of five days, or longer if symptoms persist, for those who test positive for COVID-19 and differentiates the quarantine period for close contact exposures based on vaccination status. For questions regarding isolation and/or quarantine, please call Student Health Services at 316-978-4792. Reporting Contact Wichita State University has adopted procedures and protocols to alert members of our community, including our students, employees and campus partners if the university has knowledge of potential COVID-19 exposure. It strongly encourages all students, faculty and staff to self-report if they believe they may have been exposed to, or tested positive for, COVID-19. Students can self-report by completing the COVID-19 Report Form found on the wichita.edu/reportit website. Completing this form will connect students with the campus resources through the care coordinators and Student Health Services for support during isolation or quarantine periods. Housing Protocols and Procedures Housing and Residential Life is continuously working to provide a safe, healthy and comfortable environment for all students living on campus. Testing All residents are required to complete a COVID-19 PCR test no more than 7 days prior to arriving to the residence halls or within 72 hours of arriving at the residence halls. Tests were mailed to all incoming, domestic students with housing contracts in Mid-July. Students can also schedule an appointment with Student Health Services to get tested. Both options are free to students Quarantining Students living in the residence halls who test positive for COVID-19 or are considered a close contact with someone who has tested positive will need to isolate (positive test) or quarantine (close contact). You should contact housing staff at 316-978-3693 or housing.wsu@wichita.edu immediately to help arrange this alternative housing. While Housing and Residence Life has some spaces held offline to facilitate this, students are encouraged to isolate or quarantine at their permanent residence if they are able. University Dining, Activities and Events Dining and Rhatigan Student Center hours For dining hours, please consult the WSU Dining Services Hours of Operation page Office hours While students will be able to access all services during normal business hours, many campus offices will be operating with modified in-person office hours. Please check in-person hours before coming to campus. Please keep in mind that if you want to see a particular staff or faculty member, you will need to schedule an appointment in advance. Campus activities As we keep safety as our first priority, we are working to define what for now will be a new college experience. Wichita State will continually work to balance that out with providing you with ways to connect with each other and the university. We want to hear from you on ways to create new connections this semester. Please feel free to email vpstudentaffairs@wichita.edu with ideas or feedback. Check the ShockerSync website for ways to connect with fellow students. Intramurals The Sport Programs intramural activities this semester will include in-person single and double activities (tennis, disc golf, golf, etc.), recreational Esports, virtual activities (fishing derby, accumulative marathon, etc.), and traditional sports. More details can be found on imleagues.com/wichita. It is suggested that students create an IMLeagues account to stay up to date with registration openings and deadlines. Athletics Men’s and women’s basketball started their seasons in November and students can attend games for free through March. Softball and baseball are both scheduled to begin the middle of February. Go to GoShockers.com for schedules. For ticket information, contact the WSU Ticket Office at 316-978-FANS. Important Resources Student Health Services COVID-19 Page Financial Aid COVID-19 Page Fall 2020 Course Plans COVID-19 Advising Page Housing and Residence Life COVID-19 Page Remote Learning Page NOTE: This is a complex, challenging, and fluid situation which continues to evolve rapidly. All information on these pages is subject to change as deemed necessary by University leadership in accordance with guidance and recommendations issued by federal, state, and local public health and government officials. Frequently Asked Questions What to know moving forward * Updated March 3, 2022 * What are the expectations for wearing face masks? In accordance with recently updated guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, effective Friday, March 4, masks will no longer be required for students, employees or visitors, regardless of vaccination status, while on or in Wichita State University premises or while attending campus activities or athletic events (unless otherwise noted). This includes all indoor and outdoor campus locations. The university continues to strongly recommend that all individuals engage in COVID-healthy behaviors including, but not limited to, being vaccinated if able, wearing a mask where social distancing is not possible, testing, and staying home if you feel ill. COVID testing and vaccines are readily available at no charge to WSU students and employees at the WSU Student Wellness Center. No appointment is necessary. Additional information about the vaccine and available locations can be found at www.vaccines.gov. For more information about testing sites, please visit the Sedgwick County Health Department’s webpage. Although the university is rescinding all campus-wide mask mandates, please keep in mind that, in certain cases, there may be programmatic or facility requirements dictating the wearing of masks — for example, in our patient-serving clinics or students on clinical practicums and rotations, or in those instances where close contact cannot be avoided and additional precautions may be warranted. Please consult with your supervisor and/or instructor for further instructions, and be sure to follow all posted facility requirements. Additionally, pursuant to U.S. Department of Transportation policy regarding public transportation, masks will still be required on all university shuttles through March 18. Will I be required to have a COVID vaccine in order to take in-person classes this semester? No. We do not currently require the COVID vaccine, but do highly encourage them for those who are able to get them. Vaccines are available for through Student Health Services. What mental and physical health resources are available to students? Wichita State understands this is a stressful time and we want to help students through this process as best we can. If you suffer from anxiety and need to talk to someone, please contact Counseling and Prevention Services at 316-978-4292. You can also follow them on social media for daily wellness tip and free mindfulness training @ShockersCAPS and #WSUWeSupportU. To see past training videos visit the CAPS YouTube channel Student Health Services is open 8 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Friday to provide health care services to students. You can find help at our website at wichita.edu/shs. Student Affairs has also developed an FAQ of emergency and self-care resources. Where can I get campus COVID updates? WSU recognizes that this is a very fluid situation, and we may need to adjust quickly. The WSU COVID-19 News website, wichita.edu/covid19, is regularly updated by WSU Strategic Communications. Students should stay connected to the university by regularly checking emails and announcements in Shocker Blast. In addition, university administration will communicate through email blasts and virtual town hall meetings. Academics: Attending Class * Updated March 3, 2022 * What will classes look like? Regular classroom capacities will be resumed with no more distancing limitations in the classroom. Instructors may choose, however, to divide their classes as they have previously in order to have fewer students in a classroom at a time to maintain distancing. Our hybrid class codes will allow for flexibility in these course designs. Courses for fall 2021 will be offered with a mixture of four course types: Hybrid (HYB): Courses with mixed delivery, with some in-person course work and some online coursework. Fully Online - Internet Instruction Synchronous (IIS): Internet Instruction Synchronous courses require some form of “live” virtual class times where attendance is required for discussion, presentations and labs. IIS may be a good option for students new to college and for those who do best with live lectures and enjoy social settings. Fully Online - Internet Instruction Asynchronous (IIE): Internet Instruction Asynchronous courses are designed by the instructor to be self-managed for studies, learning and demonstration of learning. While time management is flexible, the course may require scheduled benchmarks such as quizzes and projects. Hybrid Online (HYO): All course materials delivered online, but with tests given in-person (on campus or at a remote testing site). Students can visit wichita.edu/summer2021 and wichita.edu/fall2021 to see how much content is online or in-person. Go to the Registrar's Instructional Methods page for further information about course types. What are important dates for fall 2021? Full-semester classes begin on Aug. 16. The last day of the fall semester will be Dec. 2, with finals proceeding as originally scheduled from Dec. 4-9. Commencement date and details will be announced at a later time. Fall Break is scheduled for Oct. 9-12. Where do I go on the first day of classes? Please check each of your classes in Blackboard and keep an eye on your WSU email for information! If there is no information for a particular class, or if a class doesn’t have an instructor listed yet, please call OneStop at 1-855-978-1787 to be connected with the academic department offering your course. What is "hybrid" course design? A hybrid course gives instructors opportunity for flexibility and creativity. Content may be delivered in-person and online; it can be synchronous or asynchronous depending on instructor preference. What fees will be associated with different modes of delivery? In June, the Kansas Board of Regents approved a proposal to remove the online course fee, allowing students to enroll in whatever type of course best fits their learning needs without having to worry about an online fee. Can my professor require in-person attendance? Yes. Students are expected to meet the stated requirements for their courses. If a student believes they have a condition which requires accommodation where they cannot attend in person, they should contact the Office of Disability Services. Instructors will work with ODS to meet these identified accommodations. However, instructors are encouraged consider ways other than in-person attendance to assess participation and/or engagement. Can professors use Zoom for office or student hours instead of in-person office hours? Yes. Instructors are responsible for coordinating schedules with their departmental chairperson and must clearly communicate their availability with students. What do I need to know about online exams and proctoring? Some instructors require students to have proctored exams for online testing. The university supports ProctorU and Respondus for proctoring options. Additional information can be found at the Media Resources Center's Online Testing page. What guidance are instructors given for working with students with disabilities? We are reminding instructors to keep those disabilities in mind as content is created for the class. For students with hearing impairments, any video will need accurate captions. For students with visual impairments, any content will need to be accessible those students as well. Is a condition that makes someone high risk for COVID-19 complications something that gets legal accommodation protections? If you believe you need an accommodation for COVID-related issues, please contact the Office of Disability Services by calling (316) 978-3309. What happens if I get sick and cannot attend in-person class sessions? Are my professors required to create online-only content for me? Instructors should be responsive to students who are sick, just as they were before the emergence of COVID-19, by helping students make up work and stay on track in class. * Updated March 3, 2022 * Do professors have the authority to remove a student from class if they refuse to follow safety guidelines for wearing a face covering? No. Beginning March 4, 2022, masks are no longer required at Wichita State University. Academics: Student Academic Support Where do I find support for remote learning for my hybrid and online courses? Wichita State University has developed a Remote Student Support website to help with remote learning Academic Advisors are great resources, as are Success Coaches. Either can help answer questions you have about your studies. The Office of Student Success has a number of resources to help you maximize your potential for success. Tutoring and Supplemental Instruction (SI) are available online. If your class has SI, consult your class on Blackboard for the latest schedule. Your SI leader will maintain their schedule and hold sessions on the same days / times. If you currently have a tutor, email your tutor for specific information. If you need to request a tutor, go to your myWSU and click on Request a Tutor under Student Tools. Need help with study skills? Need to explore tutoring options? Don’t know where to go for help and need someone to help out? Need tutoring help from GEEKS for engineering? Need tutoring help from the Math Lab? Need tutoring help from the Writing Center? (available in Blackboard) I don’t know how to navigate my classes anymore. I need someone to help keep me on track. Am I allowed to access Ablah Library? Ablah Library is open. For the daily schedule, check wichita.edu/libraryhours. What if I have a complaint about my class? If you have a problem with your class, the first step is to communicate your concern to the instructor. If the problem cannot be resolved with the instructor, you should communicate with the chairperson of the department that is offering the class. Ex: MATH100 – Speak to the chair of the Math department. See contact information for all chairpersons here. You may also reach out to the Student Advocate for assistance with these communications. Remote Learning How do I get the Zoom app to create and attend virtual meetings? You can follow directions provided on the Media Resource Center's Zoom Training page. Are Chromebooks and hot spots still available for Wichita State students? Yes. For students who don't have access to a computer, there are a limited number of Chromebooks available. Submit a request using the link below. If you do not have internet access, contact WSU Help Desk at 316-978-HELP, Option 1, to submit a request. View the requirements and submit a request Because those students working remotely may have limited or no internet access, a limited number of cellular hotspot devices (MiFis) from Verizon, T-Mobile, and AT&T are available from Information Technology Services. These devices will be available to students through the end of the Spring 2021 semester only. We do have a limited number of devices, and they are first-come, first-served. The availability of devices is expected to fluctuate throughout the semester. Submit a MiFi Request Housing and Meal Plans For information on housing and meal plans consult the Housing and Residence Life COVID-19 Page. Student Resources and Support How do I access the Shocker Support Locker? The Shocker Support Locker is open to all Wichita State University students, faculty and staff and offers anyone who needs it access to food, clothing, toiletries, and baby/family products. The Shocker Support Locker is coordinated and managed by the Student Government Association. To limit the spread of COVID-19, all students, faculty or staff are asked to complete the Shocker Support Locker Order Form to request items from the Shocker Support Locker until further notice Locker staff will contact the user to coordinate a pick-up time between 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Friday. Questions? Please contact sga.supportlocker@wichita.edu What is Wichita State’s Care Team doing to help support students? Wichita State’s Care Team helps students and employees with health or mental health concerns, academic struggles, financial stressors, housing and food concerns and more. For information, go to wichita.edu/careteam, email care@wichita.edu or call 316-978-3149. Where do I go to get help with my COVID-19 related anxiety? The emotional, financial and social disruptions caused by COVID-19 uncertainty are creating serious challenges for many of our students. Students with pre-existing and new conditions will require extra support. It is important that instructors refer students who might need assistance to the WSU Counseling and Prevention Services (CAPS) website to learn options for addressing mental health and wellness during COVID-19. Guidance for Travel **** UPDATED **** What are the university guidelines for personal travel? Travelers should follow all guidance issued by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). International students or other students currently abroad should consult the CDC travel assessment wizard to find out if they are eligible to board flights bound for the United States. For complete CDC travel information, consult the CDC Travel website. What are university guidelines on university-sponsored domestic travel for students, faculty and staff? University-sponsored domestic travel by students, faculty and staff is permitted. Travelers should follow all guidance issued by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). The university also encourages faculty and staff to evaluate whether the travel could be handled online/remotely, or whether the travel could be delayed. What are the university guidelines on university-sponsored international travel for students? University-sponsored travel outside the United State by students is allowed, but only under the following provisions: All university-sponsored international travel by students must be approved by the appropriate dean/director whose area is responsible for the student’s potential travel, and must comply with all university international travel pre-approval requirements. Please note: international travel will not be approved to those countries designated as Level 3 or Level 4 by the U.S. State Department and/or the Centers for Disease Control. Do I have to quarantine after travel? Travelers should follow all guidance issued by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). Do I need documentation to travel? Travelers should follow all guidance issued by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). Guidance for Health, Wellness and Prevention What are the symptoms and what can I do prevent the spread of the virus? For information on symptoms and suggestions for what you can do for prevention, go to the Student Health coronavirus page. What should I do if I think I am experiencing symptoms of COVID-19? If you are sick or are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19: Please do not come to campus. Notify your instructor you are ill through the process detailed in your syllabus. Contact your health care provider. Call ahead before seeking medical care. All current WSU students can contact Student Health Services (SHS) by calling (316) 978-4792 or sending a secure message through the myShockerHealth student portal (studenthealth.wichita.edu). Student Health’s hours are Mon- Fri. 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. COVID-19 testing is available for symptomatic WSU students through SHS. Testing needs to be ordered by a provider during an office visit. For after-hours care options, there is a list of immediate care clinic and/or hospitals on the SHS website. What should I do if I think I have been exposed to COVID-19? Have you had prolonged close contact with someone who tested positive for the coronavirus? If yes, quarantine according to SCHD modified quarantine guidance. Residents of campus housing, or other special populations, will need to complete a 10-day quarantine because of the higher risk of transmission in a residence hall. Individuals who are fully vaccinated or have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 6 months AND are asymptomatic are not required to quarantine. NOTE: Fully vaccinated is defined as ≥2 weeks following receipt of the second dose in a 2-dose series, or ≥2 weeks following receipt of one dose of a single-dose vaccine. Testing is recommended if you develop symptoms, even if you had the COVID-19 vaccine or tested positive in the past. Wichita State University has adopted procedures and protocols to alert members of our community, including our students, employees and campus partners, if the University has knowledge of potential COVID-19 exposure. It strongly encourages all students, faculty, and staff to self-report if they believe they may have been exposed to, or tested positive for, COVID-19. Students can self-report by completing the COVID-19 Report Form found on the wichita.edu/reportit website. Completing this form will connect students with the campus resources through the care coordinators and Student Health Services for support during isolation or quarantine periods. If you are enrolled in online classes, or hybrid classes that are fully online with no in person requirements, continue to complete course work as needed. You may decide to reach out to the instructor to let them know you are in quarantine of isolation, but this is not required. If you are enrolled in a hybrid class, where in-person sessions are required (such as a lab) contact your professor and let them know that you are being quarantined and cannot attend class. If you have questions related to being identified as a close contact, call the Sedgwick County Health Department COVID-19 triage hotline at 316-660-1029. What procedures do I follow if I live off campus? It is recommended that you reach out to the Sedgwick County Health Department (SCHD) if you have received a positive COVID-19 test result or if you think you are a contact of positive COVID-19 case. Simply call the Sedgwick County Health Department COVID-19 triage hotline at 316-660-1029. What is the difference between isolation and quarantine? Quarantine is for people who were in close contact with a positive COVID-19 case but currently do not have any symptoms. Isolation is for people who have tested positive for COVID-19 or have symptoms of COVID-19 and are waiting for test results. What should I do about my classes if I am in isolation or quarantine? It is recommended that you reach out to all of your instructors, informing them that you may need additional time to complete work and/or miss any in- person classes due to being in quarantine or isolation. What are best practices if I am in isolation or quarantine? If you are in a shared living space while in quarantine or isolation, take the following steps to reduce transmission risk to those you live with: Stay away from other people in your home as much as possible, stay in a separate room with a closed door and using a separate bathroom, if available. Avoid sharing household items, including drinking cups, eating utensils, towels or even bedding. Wash these items thoroughly after using. Clean high-touch surfaces daily using a household cleaner or wipe. These (per the CDC) include: “counters, tabletops, doorknobs, bathroom fixtures, toilets, phones, keyboards, tablets and bedside tables”. When you cough/sneeze cover your mouth and nose with a tissue; immediately throw tissues in garbage; wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds; if that’s not available, clean with hand sanitizer that has at least 60 percent alcohol. No visitors unless the person needs to be in your home. If someone needs to help care for you, they should wear a face covering and try to limit close contact with you. If you need medical attention, call ahead and tell them you are in quarantine or isolation. Wear a face covering if you must be around other people, such as during a drive to the doctor’s office or if out of your bedroom walking through common spaces in the home. Limit contact with your pets. There is a small chance humans can pass the disease to dogs or other pets, though very few cases of transmission to pets has been reported. Is the university reporting positive COVID-19 cases to the public? Yes. The University has created a COVID-19 Dashboard that is updated weekly. University officials, in conjunction with the Sedgwick County Health Department, are closely monitoring all information as it relates to the health and safety of its campus community. The university is prepared to take all action necessary in the event that students, faculty or staff are believed to be faced with heightened risk of exposure, including, but not limited to, closing housing facilities and pivoting all classes to remote or online. What is the university doing with reports of positive tests? The university has adopted and implemented policies, procedures and practices regarding reports of known exposure or positive cases on campus. The university continues to follow the guidance of federal, state and local health officials in combating the spread of COVID-19. More information about the number of positive cases in the area can be found on Sedgwick County’s website. Will the university tell me if I may have been exposed to COVID-19? Recent Kansas legislation enacted to protect the privacy and confidentiality of information prevents the university from engaging in contact tracing efforts. As a result, all contact tracing is conducted through the state and local county health departments. The Sedgwick County Health Department, in conjunction with the Kansas Department of Health and Environment, are responsible for contacting individuals who test positive, providing instructions for isolating, and collecting information on close contacts. In the event of a positive test, employees are encouraged to contact Human Resources, and students are encouraged to report at wichita.edu/reportit. How do I access the Shocker Support Locker? The Shocker Support Locker is open to all Wichita State University students, faculty and staff and offers anyone who needs it access to food, clothing, toiletries, and baby/family products. The Shocker Support Locker is coordinated and managed by the Student Government Association. All students, faculty or staff are asked to complete the Shocker Support Locker Order Form to request items from the Shocker Support Locker until further notice Locker staff will contact the user to coordinate a pick-up time between 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Friday for the spring semester. Questions? Please contact sga.supportlocker@wichita.edu Contact Tracing Is Wichita State University allowed to conduct contact tracing? No. Wichita State is not allowed to conduct contact tracing On June 9, 2020, Kansas enacted HB 2016. This legislation created the “COVID-19 Contact Tracing Privacy Act.” Under this Act, only the Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) and the local health officer are authorized to conduct contact tracing. Only the KDHE and the local health officer can grant permission to other state entities to do contact tracing. In other words, the Act prohibits other state entities, such as Wichita State University, from performing any “contact tracing” activities unless this tracing is specifically authorized by KDHE or the local health officer. How does HB 2016 define contact tracing and how does that affect Wichita State University? Under the HB 2016, “contact tracing” has its own definition. And that means that the University has to follow and rely upon that definition – not how “contact tracing” is commonly understood or defined by the CDC or by any other state. For purposes of HB 2016, “contact tracing” means identifying persons who may have been exposed to an infected person for the purpose of containing the spread of COVID-19 by notifying the contact that the contact may have been exposed, should be tested and should self-quarantine. Since we are a state entity, the University is prohibited by law from notifying any student, employee, or visitor of any potential known exposure – even in general terms. What entity is responsible for contact tracing? In Sedgwick County, contact tracing is the sole responsibility of the Sedgwick County Health Department. This includes any contact tracing that must be done on the Wichita State campus. SCHD, in conjunction with KDHE, are responsible for contacting individuals who test positive, providing instructions for isolating, and collecting information on close contacts. Contact tracing is a specific process that is conducted through local and state public health authorities. When an individual tests positive for COVID-19, the lab where the test was completed and the provider who ordered the test are required to report the positive test results to the Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE). This report is used to initiate the contact tracing process by local and/or state public health authorities. Why is it important to self-report potential exposure or positive test for COVID-19? Wichita State University has adopted procedures and protocols to alert members of our community, including our students, employees and campus partners, if the University has knowledge of potential COVID-19 exposure. It strongly encourages all students, faculty, and staff to self-report if they believe they may have been exposed to, or tested positive for, COVID-19. Reporting can be done as follows: Employees should contact HR Total Rewards (totalrewards@wichita.edu) Students should complete the COVID-19 Report Form found on the wichita.edu/reportit website. Completing this form will connect students with the campus resources through the care coordinators and Student Health Services for support during isolation or quarantine periods. How should students in residence halls react to close contact or positive test for COVID-19? Students living in the residence halls are required to contact Housing staff if they test positive for COVID-19 or have been identified as a close contact of a confirmed positive COVID-19 case. Housing staff will work with students to facilitate quarantine and isolation spaces on campus, if needed. How does KDHE define “close contact?” KDHE defines a “close contact” as being within 6 feet for at least 10 minutes or having direct contact with someone with a laboratory-confirmed case of COVID-19. If you are not a close contact, you do not have any special precautions to take, though everyone should follow prevention measures to keep themselves healthy. These measures include practicing good hygiene and physical distancing, wearing a face covering, monitoring your health, and staying home if you are sick. Didn't see your question? Ask us! 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©