Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Research Research Sparking innovations at a world-class research university Thousands of faculty members across Indiana University Bloomington are conducting influential research every day. We’re exploring new frontiers in fields ranging from health to business to technology. And were leading the way in the arts and humanities with unapologetic excitement for transformative cultural experiences. Together, our faculty and students are taking on the world’s biggest challenges, enhancing lives, building the Hoosier economy, and strengthening communities across Indiana and the world. Learn about IU’s research impact Access research resources for faculty Contact the Office of the Vice Provost for Research ovpr@indiana.edu 812-855-3931 Internal funding opportunities Recent research and creative activity includes: Neuroscientists explore if social connectedness can predict Alzheimer’s IU researchers in partnership with the National Institute of Health are asking big questions about social networks, our brains, and how to predict and slow the development of Alzheimer’s Disease. Read about Alzheimer’s research Using arts and the humanities to connect people and improve lives Expressing creativity brings people closer to understanding themselves and others. We do that by expanding access to the arts through programs like Platform, an arts and humanities research laboratory. Check out Platform Next-generation technology taught to the next generation of Hoosiers Thanks to a $1.7 million grant, IU researchers have developed a program to teach rural middle schoolers about AI and machine learning. Read more about teaching AI to young Hoosiers Support for Emerging Areas of Research Our Emerging Areas of Research program has funded cutting-edge research in three major developing areas. Learning: Machines, Brains, and Children Machines can tell us a lot about babies. And babies can tell us a lot about machines. Together, IU researchers are learning about learning. Read more about machine learning Sustainable Food Systems Science Pairing decision science with big data and research around the world, we’re exploring how to build food systems that are more resilient, just, and sustainable. Read more about food systems Quantum Science and Engineering The Second Quantum Revolution is coming. And we’re shaping it by investigating the most mysterious aspects of quantum mechanics. Read more about quantum science and engineering IU has more than 100 research centers and institutes at the forefront of their fields. They enable researchers from across disciplines, departments, schools, and campuses to collaborate on pursuing important questions and ideas. Featured centers Center for Research on Race and Ethnicity in Society This interdisciplinary center brings together faculty and students across academic programs to study how bias and discrimination affect our selves and our society. The Kinsey Institute Relationships are hard. That’s why for over 75 years, the Kinsey Institute has been breaking down barriers and researching critical issues on sexuality, gender, reproduction, and relationships. The Observatory on Social Media Is that really real? The Observatory on Social Media brings together several schools and centers to analyze and counter misinformation on social media. Students: are you ready to solve big problems and answer tough questions? The Office of Engaged Learning can help you find exciting research opportunities and funding. You can also explore opportunities at your IU school. Get involved in research Let us be ambitious in expanding excellence across the university in research, discovery, and creativity. At IU, our students, faculty, and staff are world leaders in discovery and creation that impacts the world.IU President Pamela Whitten Faculty: start a company, license technology, and ensure your hard work pays off Your work matters and is vital to the public interest. IU has a team of experts ready to help your work get the attention it deserves through commercialization resources, workshops, and partnership agreements. Get started with your initiative or program Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University