COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Administrator-in-Training (AIT), Practicum Placement Practicum PlacementAdministrator-in-Training (AIT) All Programs College of Health Professions Public Health Sciences Wichita State's Administrator-in-Training (AIT) Practicum Placement Program helps you advance in the field of long-term care by preparing you to become a licensed nursing home administrator in the state of Kansas. The program is ideal for graduate students in aging studies and other health professions majors. Students who are not actively pursuing a degree program at WSU can apply to complete the AIT as a non-degree seeking student. Learn how Administrator-in-Training (AIT) is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program The program is open to students in their last semester of graduate studies, students who currently hold a bachelor's / advanced degree, or students pursuing a master's degree. Potential AIT students must have had coursework in the following areas prior to placement: aging/gerontology/ long-term care, management or leadership and finance or accounting Admission requirements Curriculum The program is a three-credit-hour, 480-clock-hour practicum placement with a qualified nursing home administrator. Required courses are available through the Department of Public Health Sciences. The program can be completed in one or two semesters and started in fall, spring or summer. View the curriculum Careers Wichita State's Administrator-in-Training (AIT) Practicum Placement Program is a vital asset to your health-related degree and opens doors to high-paying, high-demand administrator careers in a variety of settings. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©