Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Conference & Event Services Facilities Accommodations Summer Camps & Conferences Conference Services Internal Scheduling Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Facilities FedEx Institute of Technology The ZoneMethodist Presentation TheatreVideo Conference CenterDigital Living RoomFishbowlClassroomsBreakout RoomsFIT Floor Plan Maxine A. Smith University Center UC BallroomUC TheatreFountain View SuiteSenate ChamberOther meeting rooms Rose Theatre Access to Loading Dock Booking Packet Directions Lambuth Campus Campus InformationHamilton Performing Arts CenterJack Morris & Hamilton BallroomsWomack Chapel Downtown Law School Take Action Cotton Institute Facility Application (External clients) Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Conference & Event Services Facilities Directions to Rose Theatre Directions to Rose Theatre Note: All directions lead to the Zach Curlin Garage. The main entrance to the Michael D. Rose Theatre and Lecture Hall is located across the breezeway on the second floor of the garage and to the left down the ramp. Maps: Google University Printable Map Step by step directions: Coming from the east on I-40: Follow the Sam Cooper Blvd. signs, take the Highland Street exit from Sam Cooper Blvd., follow Highland south to Central, turn left (east) and follow Central to Zach Curlin, turn right (south) on Zach Curlin. Coming from the west on I-40: Take the Riverside Drive exit, follow Riverside Drive south to Union Avenue, turn left (east) and follow Union (Union will change to Walnut Grove) to Highland, turn right (south) and follow Highland to Central, turn left (east) and follow Central to Zach Curlin, turn left (south) on Zach Curlin. Coming from the airport (rental car dealerships): Leaving the car dealerships, turn west onto Democrat Road; from Democrat, take the Plough Boulevard/Airways North exit; from Plough Boulevard/Airways North, take the I-240 exit to Nashville (keep to the right as you take that exit); from I-240, take the Getwell North exit (exit # 20-B); follow Getwell north until it makes a "T" intersection with Park Avenue; turn right (east) onto Park Avenue; at the first stop light (just a block away) turn left (north) onto Goodlett Street; follow Goodlett across the railroad tracks to Central Avenue; turn left (west) onto Central and follow Central to Zach Curlin; turn left (south) on Zach Curlin. Coming from the north on I-55: Follow the signs to get onto I-40, go east on I-40 and take the Riverside Drive exit, follow Riverside Drive south to Union Avenue, turn left (east) and follow Union (Union will change to Walnut Grove) to Highland, turn right (south) and follow Highland to Central, turn left (east) and follow Central to Zach Curlin, turn left (south) on Zach Curlin. Coming from the north on U.S. Hwy. 51: Just south of Millington, turn left onto Paul Barret Parkway; take Paul Barret Parkway to State Rd. 204; turn onto Hwy. 204 and stay on that road until it ends at Summer Avenue (Hwy. 204 will change to Covington Pike, then Stratford Road); turn right (west) and follow Summer Avenue to Highland; turn left (south) and follow Highland to Central; turn left (east) and follow Central to Zach Curlin; turn right (south) on Zach Curlin. Coming from the south on I-55: Take the I-240 exit to Nashville, follow I-240 to the Getwell North exit and take that exit, follow Getwell north to Park Avenue, turn right (east) and follow Park Avenue one block to Goodlett Street; turn left (north) and follow Goodlett across the railroad tracks to Central Avenue; turn left (west) onto Central and follow Central to Zach Curlin; turn left (south) on Zach Curlin. Coming from the south on U.S. Hwy. 78: Take the Perkins Street exit, follow Perkins to Park Avenue, turn left (west) and follow Park Avenue to Goodlett, turn right (north) and follow Goodlett to Central, turn left (west) onto Central and follow Central to Zach Curlin; turn left (south) on Zach Curlin. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/6/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.