Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music About Us Admissions Academics Ensembles Faculty Support Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Faculty Academic Musicology Music Education Music Theory & Composition Performance BrassConductingKeyboardPercussionStringsVocal ArtsWoodwinds Popular Music Recording TechnologyMusic BusinessPerformance & SongwritingJazz Studies Lambuth Music & Entertainment Emeritus Take Action Apply Now Alumni Support Us Scheidt Family Music Center Contact Us Follow the School of Music Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedInVimeo Home Music Faculty Composition and Theory Faculty Music Theory & Composition Faculty Mahir Cetiz Music Theory & Composition mcetiz@memphis.edu Kamran Ince Composition knince@memphis.edu Jeremy Orosz Music Theory Area Coordinator jorosz@memphis.edu Recent Research & Creative Activity 2021 Jeremy Orosz, “Straight outta Nashville: Hip-Hop Allusions in Contemporary Country Music,” Popular Music and Society, Vol 45 (2021). Mahir Cetiz wrote two new compositions, commissioned by the Nermin Kaygusuz (NK) Ensemble, a song based new music ensemble that uses particular Turkish Music traditional instruments and maqams. 2020 Mahir Cetiz composed "Call of Light" for string orchestra, commissioned by the Gedik Philharmonic, which premiered in Istanbul, Turkey. Jeremy Orosz was elected President of the South Central Society for Music Theory. Kamran Ince composed Flute Concerto for the CRR Istanbul Municipality Orchestra and Bulent Evcil, flutist, and Cem Mansur, director. The premiere and recording for Naxos will take place in 2021. Kamran Ince composed Jus Soli, commissioned by the Greek National Opera to commemorate the 200th Anniversary of the independence of Greece from the Ottoman Empire. 2019 Kamran Ince served as composer in residence at MIAM, Istanbul Technical University, Turkey (February, May, October, December 2019). Kamran Ince composed A Grand American Celebration for solo saxophone and trumpet with wind ensemble, commissioned by University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee to celebrate the opening of the Jan Serr Studio owned by the Peck School of the Arts in Milwaukee, WI. Jeremy Orosz, “Lil Nas X, the “Old Town Road,” and the (f)utility of genre labels.” Musicology Now, 11 July 2019. Jeremy Orosz served as concert Host and consultant for “The Music of Star Wars,” Memphis Symphony Orchestra Performance. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/16/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.