Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Academics Academic Advising & Support Academic Advising & Support IU Bloomington is full of people who will help you succeed Hoosiers have one another’s backs—especially when it comes to your education. Your academic advisors, your career advisors, and IU support programs help you excel academically, graduate on time, find your ideal path, and take important steps toward your dream career. And your professors and peers challenge you to make the most of your time here. Tools you can use on your own iGPS degree map for current undergraduates Plan what to do to graduate on time. Degree requirements Find the academic bulletin for your school and program. Academic advising for undergraduates Your academic advisor will help you meet degree requirements and choose courses—but his or her biggest contribution is helping you explore your interests, determine your best path, and take advantage of opportunities on campus and beyond. You should meet with your academic advisor at least once per semester. Most incoming undergraduates are assigned an academic advisor in University Division, which supports them until they enter the degree-granting IU school of their choice and get an advisor there. Students in the Hutton Honors College also have access to honors advising. More types of advising Graduate student advising Your academic advisor is in your department or school. Doctoral students also have dissertation advisors. Learn more from your school. International student advising Advisors in the Office of International Services can help you with immigration and other matters. Career advising Start in the Career Development Center, and then consult with the career services office in your IU school. Academic support to help all students thrive The Academic Support Center offers advising, peer mentoring, and tutoring. The Assistive Technology and Accessibility Centers offer alternate media services and hardware and software to alleviate impairments. Disability Services for Students helps students with all kinds of impairments. The Indiana Statistical Consulting Center can provide statistical support for your research project. The Math Learning Center has undergraduates who tutor other students taking the same course. The Student Academic Center offers peer-led study sessions for specific courses, online videos, and for-credit classes that help you succeed academically. The Center for Veteran and Military Students can help you apply to IU, receive your benefits, and more. Writing Tutorial Services provides one-on-one tutorials at any stage of the writing process. More sources of academic support Get ready for your career, deal with academic issues, and access our libraries’ wide-ranging services. Division of Student Affairs Health Professions and Prelaw Center Libraries Scholars programs that will help you thrive IU has several scholars programs for undergraduates who have strong academic records and leadership skills, have high financial need, and/or are the first in their families to attend college. These programs—some of which are specifically for Indiana residents—help students transition to and succeed in college through one-on-one guidance and access to special opportunities. Find and learn from a mentor Potential mentors are everywhere at IU—from your professors to your older peers. IU’s formal mentoring programs include the Office of Mentoring Services and Leadership Development and the Graduate Mentoring Center. The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University