Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Division Departments & Areas Strategic Plan Leadership About Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President Student Well-Being Well-Being Resources Healthy 'Cane Network 'Canes Care for 'Canes COVID-19 Resources Resources COVID-19 Resources Student Resources Staff Resources Graduate Assistantships 'Canes Care for 'Canes Report a Concern News Give About Us Student Well-Being Resources 'Canes Care for 'Canes News Give Search Who We Are Departments & Areas Our Strategic Future Strategic Planning Process About Us About the Division Departments & Areas Strategic Plan Leadership About Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President Student Well-Being Well-Being Resources Healthy 'Cane Network 'Canes Care for 'Canes COVID-19 Resources Resources COVID-19 Resources Student Resources Staff Resources Graduate Assistantships 'Canes Care for 'Canes Report a Concern News Give Who We Are Departments & Areas Our Strategic Future Strategic Planning Process PRINTER-FRIENDLY VERSION Division of Student Affairs: Planning for a Strategic Future About Us Resources Leadership Staff Support News Give Home Our Strategic Future AAA Our Strategic Future Who We Are Departments & Areas Our Strategic Future Strategic Planning Process PRINTER-FRIENDLY VERSION Division of Student Affairs: Planning for a Strategic Future As a dynamic division, the University of Miami Division of Students Affairs has taken a multi-pronged approach to continue to improve student retention and persistence. Student Affairs will provide proactive programming and engagement opportunities, support students facing academic or social challenges, and directly assist students in personal crisis. It is the out-of-the-classroom work of Student Affairs that contributes to students achieving their goals of degree completion and post-collegiate plans. The strategic plan for the Division of Student Affairs was developed to build upon the strengths of the Division and to lead improvements for the future. The Division of Student Affairs contributes to the Roadmap to Our New Century by providing a transformational student experience on a foundation of administrative excellence. A transformational student experience includes exemplary learning opportunities and a proactive approach to student needs. With the continuing challenges of higher education, especially in the areas that support students outside of the classroom, it was time for the Division of Student Affairs to embark on its own strategic planning process. It was an iterative process designed to clarify the Division’s vision, plan strategically for future opportunities, prioritize goals and outcomes, and find synergistic connections to improve the Division’s administrative excellence. The Foundation: Administrative Excellence To address the demands of the changing landscape of higher education and in support of the Roadmap to Our New Century, Student Affairs outlined three goals to enhance its Administrative Excellence. To accomplish these goals, permanent committees composed of staff will be appointed annually by the Vice President to collaborate across Student Affairs to achieve the Division’s shared goals. Open All Tabs Goal 1: Develop a comprehensive resource strategy to leverage existing assets and generate additional resources The Resource Planning & Development Committee will provide guidance and recommendations to support facilities, operations, and human capital to advance student engagement and learning. Goal 2: Invest in human capital so that staff feel valued and can add value to the Division’s endeavors The Staff Development Committee will plan and implement programs and activities for staff to further develop their professional knowledge, skills and competencies as well as build professional relationships with others. Goal 3: Assess and discern the impact of programs, services and facilities on student learning and retention The Assessment Committee will provide direction and guidance for Division-wide assessment by identifying what data should be collected to effectively assess the Division’s outcomes and priorities, coordinating such data collection, and recommending enhancements to the assessment process. Divisional Priorities Through an extensive and iterative process, staff identified four Divisional Priorities that will contribute to and advance student success and learning. Open All Tabs 1. Well-being & Resiliency Enabling students to be successful learners and engaged members of a global society by providing them with the necessary mental and physical health support as well as equipping students with the necessary dynamic resiliency, coping, and conflict management skills to address personal and interpersonal challenges in life Learning Outcomes: Students will learn multiple pathways to mental and physical well-being by participating in intentional programs and services. Students will learn skills directly related to dynamic resiliency, coping and conflict management. Initiatives: Establish a centralized brand that unifies the well-being and resiliency efforts across the division. Increase intentional collaboration with existing peer education groups to develop synergies to further well-being and resiliency education. Overhaul Student Affairs UMX course content related to well-being and resiliency. Develop a needs-based assessment or utilize existing data to determine the overall impact of initiatives on student well-being and resiliency. 2. Diversity & Inclusion Preparing students to thrive in a diverse and global society by educating them on how to contribute to and benefit from an inclusive environment by providing intentional programming and physical spaces that support cultural competency and community-building 3. Transition & Connections Educating students on how to navigate new and diverse environments while becoming lifelong productive and empathetic members of society by providing a holistic transitional experience that connects students to campus resources and helps students make connections to their campus community 4. Student Engagement Helping students develop personal and professional skills in preparation for citizenship in a global community by providing meaningful programming and involvement opportunities that allow students to be an active part of campus life Divisional Priority Work Teams In order to sequentially address each priority, Divisional Priority Teams composed of staff from multiple departments in the Division will be appointed by the Vice President for Student Affairs. These teams will provide recommendations for collaboration, consolidation, and opportunities for enhancement. Additionally, teams will identify assessment metrics to track the progress of divisional priorities and measure the impact of long-term goals as related to student learning, retention, and level of postgraduation preparedness. These ad-hoc interdepartmental teams will work for a defined time period. Two co-leaders for each team will facilitate and guide the work of each Divisional Priority Team. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Division of Student Affairs 1252 Memorial Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4922 305-284-4922 vpsa@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices