Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies Middle East Center Toggle navigation Main navigation About Center History Contact Support People Center Staff Affiliated Faculty Post-Doctoral Fellow Middle East Librarian Graduate Students Regional Scholars Events Past Events News Programs Major and Minor Law Certificate Courses Course Archive Media Podcasts Fenjan: Middle East Studies Student Journal Opportunities FLAS Janet Lee Stevens Fellowship Reporting Fellowship Essay Contest Translation Contest Photo Contest K-12 Resources Teacher Events Speakers Bureau Media Library NaTakallam Travel Opportunities for Teachers Lesson Plans Conferences Nuclear Issues in the Middle East and North Africa Search Home Confused about the Middle East? There's a major for that Interdisciplinary MMES degree combines History, Political Science, Religious Studies -- and more FLAS Fellowships Study anywhere in the US or abroad. Funds for Arabic, Hebrew, Kurdish, Persian, Tajik, and Turkish . K-12 Outreach The Middle East Center offers K-12 educators and the Philadelphia community access to a range of useful resources. Where the Middle East Finds You Since 1965, the Middle East Center has been educating and informing the Philadelphia area about the richness and diversity of the Middle East and North Africa. Join us. Trauma and Resilience: Mental Health in the Middle East May 4, 2022 at 12PM Devin Atallah, Orkideh Behrouzan, Keren Friedman-Peleg, and moderator Behdad Borzorgnia News The Sachs Program for Arts Innovation 2022 Community Partnership Grant Announced for The Dido Problem Exhibition! May 11, 2022 Penn’s Middle East Center will collaborate with Al-Bustan Seeds of Culture and Past Present Projects to develop community workshops led by German-Jordanian artist duo Areej Huniti and Eliza Goldox (Huniti Goldox), through which Al-Bustan’s constituents will create a site-specific installation to accompany Huniti Goldox’s film The Dido Problem, to be sited as an immersive experience in the histo Read More Congrats to Heather Jaber for Successfully Defending her PhD Dissertation “The Digital Bahdala: Recoding National Humiliation Across Post-Revolutionary Lebanon and Egypt"! May 3, 2022 Read More Congrats to Austin Cooper for Successfully Defending his PhD Dissertation! April 21, 2022 Today, Austin Cooper of the Department of History and Sociology of Science successfully defended his dissertation on “Saharan Fallout: French Explosions in Algeria and the Politics of Nuclear Risk during African Decolonization (1960-66)". Read More MEC Student Awards 2022 - CONGRATS! April 14, 2022 The Middle East Center would like to congratulate the following students: Read More David Kazanjian and Rudra Sil awarded for their distinguished teaching in the School of Arts and Sciences! Read more below. April 6, 2022 It gives us great pleasure to announce the recipients of the 2022 awards for distinguished teaching in the School of Arts and Sciences; including our very own Rudra Sil (Political Science) who won the Ira H. Read More Michigan Quarterly Review Guest-edited by our very own Huda Fakhreddine - "Decades of Fire: New Writing from the Middle East and North Africa" April 5, 2022 Click here to read the full piece. Read More (EVENT RECORDING) The Outlaw Ocean Project: The Migration Crisis off the Coast of Libya March 31, 2022 On March 29, 2022, the Middle East Center was honored to host Ian Urbina, a Pulitzer Prize winning journalist and director of the Outlaw Ocean Project. See below for a description of the event, as well as a link to the recording. Event Description Read More Winter 2022 Issue of Fenjan out now! March 2, 2022 Click here to read the full Winter 2022 issue of Fenjan! Read More (EVENT RECORDING) British Power and the Shaping of Iranian Identity in Early 20th Century Bahrain March 1, 2022 On February 22, 2022, the Middle East Center was delighted to host Lindsey Stephenson, who presented on the ways that British power shaped the identity and community formations of Iranians in Bahrain during the early 20th century. See below for a full event description, as well as a link to the recording. Event Description: Read More (EVENT RECORDING) Middle East Archive Project March 1, 2022 On February 24, 2022, the Middle East Center was pleased to host Romaisa Baddar and Daleen Saah, who presented on the Middle East Archive Project -- a curated, online series of photographs which aims to recover and preserve lost memories of the Middle East and North Africa. See below for a full event description, as well as a link to the event recording. Read More Courses Course offerings on the Middle East at Penn are rich and multidisciplinary. All are taught by world-renowned scholars in their field with exemplary records of teaching and publishing some of the most innovative research on the Middle East and Islam. See Course Offerings Subscribe to our mailing list Donate Image Credits Images found on this website may not be reproduced without express written permission from the Middle East Center. Photo credits: Erin Brennan, Jackson Foltz, Matthew French, John Ghazvinian, Eric Sucar. Contact Us Middle East Center 3340 Walnut Street Fisher-Bennett Hall, Suite 228 Philadelphia, PA 19104-6273 215-898-6335 mec-info@sas.upenn.edu Harun Küçük Director kucuk@sas.upenn.edu John Ghazvinian Executive Director ghazvini@upenn.edu College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Penn WebLogin