4401 Martin Luther King Blvd Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2020 | Monday - Friday 8AM -6PM Toggle navigation UHCO Homepage Request An Eye Appointment Order Contacts Our Services Eye Exams Contact Lenses Pediatrics Essilor Optical Services The Center For Sight Enhancement Dry Eye Medical Eye The Myopia Management Service Brain Injuries Patient Information Why the UEI? Tips during COVID-19 What to Bring To Your Appointment Insurance & Payment Options Directions to the UEI Emergency Care Our Clinical Faculty Your Privacy Rights Internet Eyeglasses Policy Internet Eyeglasses Policy (español) Adjust Font Size Why the UEI? Tips during COVID-19 What to Bring To Your Appointment Insurance & Payment Options Directions to the UEI Emergency Care Our Clinical Faculty Your Privacy Rights Internet Eyeglasses Policy Internet Eyeglasses Policy (español) Showing 1 - 1 of 1 total clinical Faculty Members Kathryn Richdale , O.D.,Ph.D., FAAO Associate Professor richdale@central.uh.edu 7137431974 Bio Research Interests Clinical Interests Dr. Richdale joined the University of Houston College of Optometry in 2017. She was previously an Associate Professor and founding director of the Clinical Vision Research Center, and established the Myopia Control Clinic at the State University of New York College of Optometry. Dr. Richdale teaches and conducts research primarily in cornea and contact lenses and her work has been supported by federal, private and industry grants. She currently serves as Co-Chair of the Contact Lens Assessment in Youth (CLAY) study group. Dr. Richdale received her OD, PhD, and Cornea and Contact Lens Advanced Practice Fellowship from The Ohio State University. Contact lenses, presbyopia, accommodation, anterior segment effects of diabetes and obesity Cornea and contact lenses, presbyopia, myopia control, multifocals, orthokeratology Showing 1 - 1 of 1 total clinical Faculty Members Applying to UHCO | University Eye Institute | The Surgery Center | Academic Programs NBEO Pass Rates | 2025 OD Class Profile | Current Research Studies | Faculty Directory | Administration | Continuing Education ©2022 University of Houston College of Optometry. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies