Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Home About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Resources For Families Community of Learners Events Get Involved Site Navigation Home For Participants About the Hassenfeld Study Hassenfeld Study: Leadership Hassenfeld Study: Research Assistants About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Asthma ABC Study Project CARE RI AIR Hotspot Analysis Home Asthma Response Program Neighborhood Risk Autism Genetics PHOEBE Study Prospective Infant Behavioral Study Play and Autism RI-CART Healthy Weight Summer Weight Gain Pregnancy and Early Childhood Expanding Scope of Treatment Measuring Overweight and Obesity The Hassenfeld Study Postpartum Cohort Prenatal Cohort Injury and Poisoning Neighborhood Disparities in Lead Poisoning Lead & Prematurity Fall-related Injuries Liquor Stores & Teen ED Use Frequent ED Use ED Use & Insurance Coverage Traumatic Brain Injury Burns Resources For Families English Español Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Events Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series Past events and webinars Get Involved Give to the Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards Hassenfeld Institute to Resume In-Person Recruitment for Postnatal Study Researchers with the Hassenfeld Institute are gearing up to resume in-person recruitment for their autism study after a lengthy hiatus due to COVID-19. The study enrolls moms soon after they have given birth at Women & Infants Hospital. During the pandemic, research assistants worked remotely, calling new moms in their hospital rooms to tell them about the study and help them to enroll. Soon, research assistants will return to conducting in-person recruitment in the hospital's postnatal rooms. “Resuming in-person enrollment will make it easier for new parents to learn about the study, and it gives our research staff the opportunity to start to build a relationship between the parents and the Hassenfeld Institute,” said Dr. Stephen Sheinkopf, co-lead of the Hassenfeld Institute’s Autism Initiative and a PI on the study. Dr. Sheinkopf is an assistant professor of psychiatry and pediatrics at The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. The study examines behaviors in newborns that may be related to developmental delays later in life and follows participants over the course of five years. Because it is an observational study, participating moms and children are not asked to change any of their normal habits or take any medications. The moms are asked to contribute recordings of their baby’s cries in the first month and then to fill out a questionnaire every year on their child’s birthday. Cries are now recorded through a novel method using an app installed on parents’ phones, allowing families to conveniently record and securely share recordings made after they return home. All participants are compensated for their time. “The pandemic interrupted recruitment for a period of time, but it also gave us a chance to re-tool and come up with a novel and creative way for parents to share the cry sounds of their newborns. This is great for our current study, and it opens up new possibilities for future efforts,” Dr. Sheinkopf said. Dr. Sheinkopf’s autism study is just one of the many studies supported by the Hassenfeld Institute and its birth cohort, which is a longitudinal study of moms and children in Rhode Island. The information gathered through the birth cohort studies will help to better predict health outcomes and guide individualized approaches to support and treatment of child health issues. People who are interested in enrolling in the study can learn more here or call our study line at (401) 863-9746. Learn more about the Autism Initiative. Jul 22, 2021 Recent news: Wed Oct 20 Three Innovation Awards Focus on Childhood Disparities in a Single Core City Thu Jul 22 Hassenfeld Institute to Resume In-Person Recruitment for Postnatal Study Fri Jun 11 Hassenfeld Institute, Others Launch GO MOMs Study on Gestational Diabetes Thu Jun 10 Half-Decade of Progress at Hassenfeld Institute is High Five for Children's Health Mon May 24 Healthy Weight Initiative to Examine Self-Regulation and Infant Growth Tue May 18 Brown School of Public Health Joins Task Force to Support Schools and Districts with Implementing CDC Guidance Thu Mar 25 Hassenfeld Institute Awards $30K in Innovation Awards to Community, State Groups Thu Feb 18 Hassenfeld Study Provides Opportunity to Examine Impact of COVID-19 on R.I. Families Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Brown University Box G S 121-4 121 South Main Street, Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3855 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Info for study participants Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top