Skip to main content University of Nevada, Las Vegas Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Topics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Menu U-N-L-V Community Community About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Find close Community menu Community Audiences Home Alumni Community Donors Faculty/Staff First-Generation Parents Students close find region Find Search A-Z Index Directories Quick Links Bookstore Bookstore Calendar Calendar Campus Maps Campus Maps Degrees Degrees Libraries Libraries MyUNLV MyUNLV News Center News Center RebelCard RebelCard Rebelmail Rebelmail Social Media Social Media UNLV Mail UNLV Mail WebCampus WebCampus Loading Directories Home A-Z Index Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Employee Directory Contact UNLV Social Media Directory UNLV Mobile Apps Breadcrumb UNLV Home Community Connections Community Connections UNLV has been an integral part of the growth and prosperity of Southern Nevada and has helped improve the business, social, and cultural climate at all levels. UNLV has received the 2020 Carnegie Community Engagement Classification. UNLV Family Medicine Provides Wide Range of Services The clinic handles around 11,000 patient visits per year, including expectant mothers, children, adults, and the elderly, as well as the Golden Knights and Aviators. The clinic is just one example of the important role UNLV plays in the community. Dental Clinics Dental Clinics The School of Dental Medicine has more than 70,000 patient visits per year in its clinics throughout Nevada. Its low-cost fees, combined with community outreach and free clinics at the school provides nearly $6.3 million in free services to those in need. UNLV Medicine Clinics UNLV Medicine Clinics UNLV Medicine Clinics are committed to helping the underserved areas and population. The multi-specialty practice includes an integrated autism center, employs three pediatric general surgeons, and a specialist in pediatric allergy/immunology. Thomas and Mack Legal Clinic Thomas and Mack Legal Clinic Law students gain practical legal experience representing clients in one of the nine clinics. Through training, advocacy, scholarship, and community partnerships, the clinic serves the community and improve the law and law practice. Service Learning Service Learning UNLV offers a range of civic engagement opportunities as part of the learning experience, where service learning is tied to academic course content and helps fulfill a community organization need. Alternative Breaks Alternative Breaks From heavenly bodies to the human body, our faculty and students are making new discoveries, solving critical problems, and finding ways to help us better understand ourselves and the world around us. UNLVolunteers UNLVolunteers UNLVolunteers is a student-led organization whose mission is to learn and serve with the community to promote awareness and positive social change by providing and promoting meaningful service opportunities for UNLV students, faculty, and staff. Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships connect us to the community, including the Engelstad Scholars program, that requires community service, and the HOPE Scholars Program, that assists unaccompanied homeless youth in Clark County with year-round housing, academic support, and financial support while attending UNLV. Partner With Us Members of the campus and external communities are forming wonderful partnerships for the greater good. Find out about the many ways to connect and collaborate and make a difference for our students and community. Hire an Intern or a UNLV Graduate Hire an Intern or a UNLV Graduate UNLV’s Career Services assists employers in hiring UNLV grads and interns, and offers resources and support to students and alumni through all stages of their career development. Network or Be a Mentor Network or Be a Mentor Sign up for networking and other options and explore ways to reconnect. Take a Class Take a Class Whether for personal enjoyment, professional development, or credit, incredible learning opportunities are available at UNLV. Partner to Conduct Research Partner to Conduct Research Contact our researchers when your company or nonprofit needs analysis by one or more of our experts. Collaborate Through Service Learning Collaborate Through Service Learning Organizations may want to consider partnering with faculty to build a community project into the curriculum of a course. Participate in Cultural and Intellectual Vitality Participate in Cultural and Intellectual Vitality UNLV hosts dozens of lectures, exhibitions, performances, games, and other events each year and welcomes the community to attend. Office of Community Engagement Office of Community Engagement UNLV’s Office of Community Engagement seeks to support, facilitate, and promote collaboration, partnership, and engagement between the university and its many communities. Philanthropy and Alumni Engagement Philanthropy and Alumni Engagement The Division of Philanthropy and Alumni Engagement connects with individuals, alumni, foundations, and corporations to build support of UNLV and strengthen our mission of teaching, research, and public service. UNLV Helping Businesses UNLV is a clearinghouse for business leaders and entrepreneurs looking to start, grow, or expand their businesses. Office of Economic Development Office of Economic Development The office promotes economic development in the community and state and supports faculty and staff as they develop intellectual property. Nevada Small Business Development Nevada Small Business Development Learn about the small business development assistance provided to the local community and the surrounding region. Troesh Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation Troesh Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation The center promotes the teaching, research, and practice of entrepreneurship in Southern Nevada. Center for Business and Economic Research Center for Business and Economic Research The center collects, analyzes, and disseminates information on the economy and Nevada businesses. Lied Institute for Real Estate Studies Lied Institute for Real Estate Studies The institute is committed to advancing the real estate profession by offering programs and services such as real estate certification, online mortgage training, and networking opportunities for industry professionals. Division of Educational Outreach Division of Educational Outreach Ed outreach offers customized programs for training, retraining, and upgrading skills of employees. They also provides professional services such as data collection. Minority Businesses Minority Businesses UNLV is committed to creating a more diverse supplier base while maximizing resources and strengthening economic development. Small, minority, veteran, or female business owners can access business opportunities with UNLV through the Supplier Inclusion Program. A Campus for the Community We welcome the community to visit and experience everything UNLV has to offer. Our Campus Wellness Coronavirus Information Safety and Emergency University Statements and Compliance Web Accessibility Top Tier 2.0 Employment Visit Our Campus Campus Maps Parking Information News Center Contact UNLV University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S. Maryland Pkwy. Las Vegas, NV 89154 Phone: 702-895-3011 Campus Notifications © 2022 UNLV Produced by UNLV Web & Digital Strategy UNLV.edu Privacy Statement Website Feedback Social Media at UNLV