Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Strategic Funding Opportunity Listings The Office of Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) and the Office of Corporate & Foundation Relations (CFR) have compiled the below thematic listings of foundation, corporate, and federal funding opportunities, selected to reflect Brown’s research strengths as they align with national funding priorities. The information on display enables viewers to determine if an opportunity suits their needs at a glance; this includes basic information about the topics of interest for the opportunity, application deadlines, potential funding, maximum duration, the target audience, and the window of opportunity for application. The information for each opportunity and the overall listings are not meant to be exhaustive, but rather provide viewers with a sense of what is available and whether it is viable for their needs. Before pursuing an opportunity, it is crucial to read all information from the posted link to ensure a full understanding of all requirements and the application process. Updates These are living documents; please help us keep them updated. If an opportunity becomes outdated, has an error, or even if a new opportunity becomes available, please fill out this brief form and include a brief description of what is outdated or a description of where to access information about the new opportunity. Limited Submissions Limited submissions are awards where applicants must be sponsored by their institution, and each institution can only submit a limited number of applications per cycle. Brown has a process and policies that MUST be followed in the application process for limited submissions. Information can be found on Brown University's Research website. LIMITED SUBMISSIONS PROCESS AND POLICIES Funding Opportunity Listings by topic COVID-19 Aging Alzheimer's Disease DEI Cancer THE NEXT LEVEL: Funding Opportunities for Graduate Students and Postdocs NEW: Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning Biomedical Engineering - Coming Soon! Population Studies - Coming Soon! Humanities - Coming Soon! Public Health - Coming Soon! Don't see your topic? Request a listing here Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding External Funding Opportunities COVID-19 External Funding Opportunities Limited Submissions Process and Policies Limited Submission Funding Opportunities Research and Development Grant Writing News Strategic Funding Opportunity Listings Internal Funding Opportunities Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat