Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Programs & Services Assessment Certificates Consultations Departmental Support English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Orientations Tutoring Workshops & Roundtables Writing Teaching & Learning Resources Learning Collaborative News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter English Language Program Thank you for your interest in the English Language Program. Please note that the Summer 2022 program is at capacity and registration is now closed. For additional programming and support for graduate students during the academic year, see the English Language Support page or email [email protected] with questions. The English Language Program is a two-week summer pre-orientation program that aims to equip incoming international graduate students for whom English is not a primary language with the language skills to feel confident and successful in navigating their academic contexts. By the end of the program, participants will connect with their peers, staff, and university resources and services, practice social and academic English language skills in low-stakes contexts, and receive direct feedback from English Language Support. The 2022 English Language Program will be held in person on campus 9:00 am-12:00 pm ET, Monday-Friday, August 8-19. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Is the program free? Yes! The English Language Program (ELP) is a free and optional summer pre-orientation program for incoming international graduate students. It is in collaboration with the Graduate School and part of the free programmatic and individual services provided by Writing and English Language Support (W&ELS) at Brown. Materials, some lunches, and fees for any site visits will be provided. Participants should plan to secure their own housing and any transportation to and from the program site prior to the program start date. What topics are covered? ELP focuses on the topics that international graduate students at Brown most often have questions about. These include everyday interactions such as small talk, colloquial language, and email communication, classroom interactions such as asking questions, discussions, presentations, learning strategies, and research and writing resources, and departmental and cross-campus interactions such as meeting with faculty/advisors and requesting and receiving feedback, and more! Are there any assessments or grades? No! Since ELP is a support program and not a course, there are no assessments or grades. There are, however, multiple speaking and writing opportunities where participants can collaborate with peers and receive direct feedback from ELS staff. Can I participate even if I might not be able to attend all the sessions? Because ELP is an interactive learning experience with a maximum capacity of 25 students, we ask that participants dedicate the time from 9:00 am-12:00 pm ET, Monday-Friday, August 8-19 to the program. We hope that this time frame provides flexibility outside of the program for other commitments. You are welcome to share any information that may support your participation in the program in the “optional” section of the registration form. Students who do not participate in the program may be interested in exploring other English Language Support options. Important Dates (in Eastern Time) June 1 ELP registration closes June 3 Invitations sent out June 10 Deadline to confirm participation August 8 ELP starts Registration Master’s and Ph.D. students in any discipline who are beginning their academic programs on campus in Summer or Fall 2022 can use this Google Form to register. Registration will close on June 1. Invitations will be sent via email on June 3. Invitees will be asked to confirm their participation in the program via email by June 10. If you are unable to access the Google Form or if you have any questions, please contact Jen Kim, Assistant Director of English Language Support, at [email protected]. Programs & Services English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Assessment Certificates Consultations Departmental Support Fellowships & Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Orientations Tutoring Workshops & Roundtables Writing The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top