Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Conference & Event Services Facilities Accommodations Summer Camps & Conferences Conference Services Internal Scheduling Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Internal Scheduling Virtual EMS Request SpaceApprove space VEMS Training FAQsFaculty/StaffRSOApprovers Take Action Cotton Institute Facility Application (External clients) Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Conference & Event Services Internal Scheduling Internal Scheduling The University of Memphis is happy to offer a centralized Scheduling Office to both external and internal users. The Scheduling Office is the primary point of contact for all departments, groups, and individuals, who are interested in scheduling the use of facilities and space at the University of Memphis. By centralizing the scheduling process, we are able to provide internal and external groups efficient and effective service for scheduling activities and events. Departments and Registered Student Organizations Academic and administrative departments, and registered student organizations may reserve on-campus facilities by using VIRTUAL EMS. Training materials can also be found under the VEMS TRAINING link on this page. Faculty/Staff may REQUEST facilities one year (365 days) in advance (approvals may not be given until 5 months out from event date). RSOs may request facilities six (6) months in advance. Please note that University Center policy related to the scheduling of RSO special events stipulates that student activity requests are submitted three weeks prior to the beginning of the event. VEMS booking is for University and departmental events only, not for personal or outside organizations' events. In order to request event or meeting space for non-affiliated events, please call our main office at 901.678.5000, or email conferences@memphis.edu. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/23/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.