Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Conference & Event Services Conference & Event right arrow down arrow Services right arrow down arrow Conference Planning Event Registration Event Equipment Rental Specialty Lighting Promotional Tabling Weddings Summer Intern Housing Summer Conferences & Camps Catering On-Demand Meeting Rooms Venues right arrow down arrow Tangeman University Center right arrow down arrow Great Hall Rates Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Nippert Stadium West Pavilion right arrow down arrow West Pavilion Event Policies West Pavilion Catering right arrow down arrow Corry Street Catering Menu West Pavilion Rates Campus Recreation Center Outdoor Classrooms Athletic Facilities Other Stratford Heights Resources right arrow down arrow COVID-19 For Students For Faculty & Staff For Non-University Clients Event Policies Use of Facilities Catering Guide West Pavilion Event & Catering Guide FAQ Contact Us Request A Space right arrow down arrow 25 Live Instructions Home » About UC » Conference & Event Services » Venues » Stratford Heights Set Navigation title in component Tangeman University Center Great Hall Rates Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Nippert Stadium West Pavilion West Pavilion Event Policies West Pavilion Catering Corry Street Catering Menu West Pavilion Rates Campus Recreation Center Outdoor Classrooms Athletic Facilities Other Stratford Heights Stratford Heights Full Gallery The lodge décor of this multipurpose room provides an intimate setting suitable for events up to 96 people. CES coordinates with you in advance your AV, set up and catering needs. Parking in the adjacent garage should be arranged in advance with Parking Services. Banquet Room The Banquet room is located on the second floor of the Stratford Heights community building, and includes access to the patio space. Access after 5 p.m. into the building is limited to swipe access, so pre-arrangements must be made for evening event The banquet room has five standard pre-sets: Lecture Style: 96 Round Tables: 72 at 9 rounds with 8 chairs Classroom Style: 48 Conference Style: 36 U-shaped Conference Style: 26 at 13 tables Audiovisual (AV) Equipment In-room technology includes projector, screen, and microphone. Groups may bring in their own laptop and connect to the built-in technology. Groups can also request that CES provide a laptop. Requests for CES laptops must be ordered 10 business days prior to the event, so staff can be scheduled to assist. The fee is $65 per day. Food Classic Fare Catering is the exclusive caterer for Stratford Heights. No outside food or beverage may be brought in for meetings and events in Stratford Heights. The grill is only to be used by Classic Fare Catering. Only hosted bars may be held at Stratford. No cash bar is allowed per the existing liquor permit. Full Gallery Full Gallery Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 event.services@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top