Jump to navigation Penn Home Public Safety Contact Us Privacy Policy Search form Search Welcome Welcome Proud Penn Parents! About Our Office Visiting Penn and Philadelphia Penn Parent Experience Class of 2025 Parents Understanding the Transition to College Senior Parents Communications and Publications FAQs FERPA Academic and Student Life About the University of Pennsylvania Wellness and Mental Health Resources at Penn Academic Advising Dining Services Residential Services Off-Campus Services Student Registration and Financial Services Student Health Service Get Involved Parent Volunteers Penn Parents Council The Penn Fund Please Make a Gift About The Penn Fund Benjamin Franklin Society Honor Roll and Donor Appreciation FAQ Penn Family Founders Main menu Welcome Welcome Proud Penn Parents! About Our Office Visiting Penn and Philadelphia Penn Parent Experience Class of 2025 Parents Understanding the Transition to College Senior Parents Communications and Publications FAQs FERPA Academic and Student Life About the University of Pennsylvania Wellness and Mental Health Resources at Penn Academic Advising Dining Services Residential Services Off-Campus Services Student Registration and Financial Services Student Health Service Get Involved Parent Volunteers Penn Parents Council The Penn Fund Please Make a Gift About The Penn Fund Benjamin Franklin Society Honor Roll and Donor Appreciation FAQ Penn Family Founders You are here Home Academic and Student Life Academic and Student Life Freshman Year Freshman Year is a time of transition. The University and individual schools offer a diverse array of resources and support aimed at assisting your Penn student with the Freshman year transition. In addition to the individual schools, the links below are provided to ensure that you are connected to the resources and support that will be most useful in supporting your Penn students in thriving at Penn Click here for more Resources for Freshmen Sophomore Year Sophomore Year is a time of exploration. Many students use the Sophomore year to further develop their academic interests as they declare their major and their co-curricular interests as they explore the many programs and activities available to them as Penn students. In addition to the individual schools the resources below are designed to provide you with insight specific to your student's Sophomore year. Click here for more Resources for Sophomores Junior Year During your student’s Junior year, he or she is positioned to take the theoretical knowledge learned in their classes and begin the process of practical application. As such, their involvement in research, study abroad or internships begin to play a larger role in their Penn career. In addition to the individual schools, the links below are designed to provide you with insight specific to your student’s Junior year. Click here for more Resources for Juniors Senior Year The moment you have all been waiting for has arrived as you support your Penn student in their journey to commencement. Senior year is a time of transition and students may rely on parents and family members for support with academic issues, extracurricular involvements and preparation for life after Penn. In addition to the individual schools, the resources below are designed to provide you with insight specific to your student's Senior year, including information about University Commencement. Click here for more Resources for Seniors Wellness and Mental Health Resources for Undergraduate Students This page helps you navigate Penn's professional, academic, peer, and cultural resources available to all students. Links Academic Calendar University Life Penn Today for Parents Division of Public Safety Penn Compact 2020 Penn Home Public Safety Contact Us Privacy Policy The Office of Parent Outreach and Development/Penn Parents 2929 Walnut Street Suite 300 Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-746-4646 // ppparent@dev.upenn.edu © 2022 All Right Reserved.