SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Celebrating 100 years of Business Education Celebrating a True Visionary: Edwin L. Cox, Sr. On October 15, 2020, as part of celebrating 100 years of business education at SMU, the SMU Cox School of Business honored Edwin L. Cox, Sr. ’42 with the inaugural Cox Visionary Award for his extraordinary leadership and contributions to the business community. Mr. Cox, for whom SMU’s business school was named in 1978, exemplifies the vision, civic engagement and can-do spirit that inspire the best in all of us today and shape the business world changers of tomorrow. Play Video > Play Video Play Video "One Hundred Years of Business Education at SMU" The Future of Business Education at SMU During the next 100 years, the SMU Cox School of Business will work closely with the North Texas business community to remain internationally competitive and transform our educational programs to meet the rapidly shifting times. The Cox School will attract outstanding, diverse talent with scholarships for students of all backgrounds and expanded, modernized spaces that foster collaborative learning. Cox School faculty at the forefront of global thought leadership on business will educate those who will lead our North Texas community and change our world. Play Video > Play Video SMU Cox 1920-2020 Breaking Ground on the Second Century See the story at CoxToday Online > The future is ours to build SMU Cox has made a Texas-sized impact on the world over the last 100 years— in Dallas/Fort Worth, North Texas, the U.S. and globally. On business. On society. On history. On the future. Our community counts on Cox to deliver prolific and contributive educators as well as a new era of business drivers who are prepared to harness the power of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Cox has made a measurable impact on education, business development, intellectual capital, our community, our environment and society at large. Thanks to the ongoing partnership of our supporters, we enter 2020 eager to build a premier business education destination that takes our students far into the twenty-first century. We are committed to further growth by concentrating on academic excellence and collaboration among faculty members, the SMU campus, the City of Dallas and the global community. Bill Dillon Senior Associate Dean, SMU Cox School of Business explore cox programs One Hundred Years of Business Education In 2020, SMU Cox will celebrate 100 years of business education. On February 20, 1920, the SMU Board of Trustees voted to establish a College of Applied Arts and Sciences that included a business administration department. All along the way, the Cox School has strived to be a fruitful field for allies, thought-leaders and global citizens who drive purposeful leadership in today’s dynamic business climate. With the ongoing mission of “influencing the way the world conducts business, one student at a time,” the Cox School has been proud to help launch the careers of more than 40,000 graduates. At this momentous time in the history of SMU Cox, we are grateful for your support and eager to launch our next 100 years of business education. Matthew B. Myers Dean, SMU Cox School of Business Tolleson Chair of Business Leadership give now As we launch our second hundred years, SMU Cox continues to strive for excellence in the business education we offer and in the future leaders we help develop. Matthew B. Myers Dean, SMU Cox School of Business, Tolleson Chair of Business Leadership 2020: A Time to Celebrate Allies Cox reached this landmark thanks to the thousands of challengers, game-changers, and achievers that have emboldened and activated the spirit of SMU Cox in their personal and professional lives. Their influence on the world of business education – big and small – got us to where we are today. Throughout 2020, we will commemorate our 100th birthday in many different forms and venues. We will share stories about Cox Allies –faculty, staff, contributors, civic leaders, policy shapers, students, alumni, parents and all related influencers within the Cox stratosphere. We invite everyone to share stories about our world changers. Tell us: who has blazed a trail? Challenged the status quo? Who is making a difference? We are always looking for the lesser known stories that are not in our peripheral vision. We want to hear from you! Email your suggestion of a Cox100 Ally to communications@smu.edu or click to nominate a ally. The smartphone app I created, Just Drive, is a perfect combination of my interests in human rights and marketing. It combines business with a philanthropic cause. Neha Husein ’19 Founder of the Just Drive App nominate a cox ally The Cox Network by the Numbers Countries with Cox Alumni 40+ Cox Alumni Worldwide 40,000 Cox Executive Mentors 260+ SMU Cox in the Next Century. Join us in our celebration! Nominate a Cox Ally, post your SMU Cox memories on social media hashtag #cox100, let us know what you are up to! Get Cox100 Updates SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter