Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Office of Graduate Degree Programs About Departments Office of Graduate Degree Programs The Office of Graduate Degree Programs (OGP) administers the LL.M., Executive LL.M., J.S.D., and non-degree programs. For general questions about the LL.M., Executive LL.M. in Global Business Law, and J.S.D. programs, email [email protected]. Contact Information Office of Graduate Degree Programs 1125 Amsterdam Avenue (corner of 115th Street), 6th Floor, Room 601 +1 212-854-2655 Send an email Related Links LL.M. Admissions Executive LL.M. Admissions J.S.D. Admissions Department Services We provide individual support to each LL.M., Executive LL.M., and J.S.D. student throughout every step of their Law School experience, from application to degree conferral, and we keep in close touch with our broad network of alumni. LL.M. Degree Challenge yourself. Broaden your perspective and your network. Rediscover the law and your future in the legal profession. Executive LL.M. Degree Advance academically while staying professionally connected. J.S.D. Degree Engage the resources of a world-class university to pursue a distinguished career in legal scholarship. Academic Advising Successfully navigate all the challenges and opportunities you encounter at Columbia Law School with the help of our academic advisers. Meet the Office of Graduate Degree Programs Team Julie Sculli Assistant Dean, Office of Graduate Degree Programs Email:[email protected] Jill M. Casal Executive Director, Office of Graduate Degree Programs Email:[email protected] Alison Sherwin Director of Academic Affairs & the J.S.D. Program Email:[email protected] Marissa Zalk Director of Graduate Student Affairs Email:[email protected] Megan Heatherly Assistant Director of Admissions Email:[email protected] Ben Churchill Program Coordinator Email:[email protected] Amanda Roden Assistant Director of the E.LL.M. Program and Marketing Email:[email protected] Danielle Flores de Benzerga Associate Director of Admissions, Recruiting, and Student Advising Email:[email protected] Upcoming Events View All Events May 31 2022 Deadline - June 6th - Moot Court Student Editor/LPW Teaching Fellow Tue, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. William and June Warren Hall, 1125 Amsterdam Ave., New York, NY 10027 Jun 1 2022 Revolution 12/13 | Abolition Feminism with Sarah Haley Wed, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. The People's Forum, 320 W. 37th St., New York, NY 10018 Jun 2 2022 Annual Staff Appreciation & Recognition Luncheon Thu, 12:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Faculty House, 64 Morningside Dr., New York, NY 10027 Presidential Ballroom View All Events Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Law School News News Meet the 2021 J.D. and LL.M. Postgraduate Public Interest Fellows Every year, recent Columbia Law School graduates receive prestigious fellowships that support positions in public interest and public service organizations. Students News Leading by Example: The 2021–2022 Davis Polk Leadership Fellows Students News Innovating for Justice: The 2021–2022 LL.M. Human Rights Fellows Students News Adilbek Kaziyev ’22 LL.M. Awarded 3C Foundation Scholarship Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.