Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date December 16, 2021 2021-12-16 Media Contact Brian E. Clark [email protected] 401-863-1638 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email The year in stories — 2021 At Brown, calendar year 2021 was brimming with breakthroughs, reflections, an unshakeable sense of community and the determination necessary to move forward — here are 21 stories that offer a glimpse at that activity. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — From a student earning a Ph.D. in physics at age 89, to Brown community members capturing a Nobel Prize, Rhodes Scholarship and MacArthur “genius grant,” there was no shortage of individual achievements to celebrate in 2021. But in a calendar year still framed significantly through the COVID-19 pandemic, success was about much more than academic accomplishments: the University achieved a near-universal COVID-19 vaccination rate, and in-person operations returned to a campus that began to feel a bit more like pre-pandemic Brown. Scholars at the School of Public Health, Warren Alpert Medical School and in other academic departments offered their expertise to help safely navigate the new normal, including by developing an innovative virtual course that helped leaders tackle pandemic challenges in real time. The year at Brown witnessed myriad scientific discoveries and innovations in research — from breakthroughs in brain science to a watershed analysis of the impact of climate change — that left their marks well beyond campus. The University released a second, expanded edition of its pioneering Slavery and Justice Report, and on the solemn 20th anniversary of 9/11, the community gathered to remember and honor those lost. And all of that is just a snapshot. As the Brown community bids farewell to 2021, here in reverse chronological order are 21 of Brown’s most noteworthy and best-loved stories of the year. 2021: The Year in Stories University Initiatives | November 12, 2021 Fifteen years after its publication, Brown’s watershed Slavery and Justice Report is reinvigorated A second edition of Brown’s landmark report, which sparked a national conversation on higher education’s entanglements with racial slavery, offers new insights on the document’s persistent and evolving impact. Science and Technology | November 12, 2021 Brown physics student earns Ph.D. at age 89 After a 30-year career in medicine, Manfred Steiner returned to the classroom to fulfill a lifelong dream of becoming a physicist. News and Events | November 2, 2021 Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign Having reached its target more than a year ahead of schedule, the University will continue raising funds for student scholarships and faculty research, while establishing new goals in the months to come. News and Events | October 25, 2021 Brown to significantly expand financial aid and college access Buoyed by endowment performance and strength in fundraising, the University will invest in three initiatives supporting undergraduates and Providence students. Social Sciences | October 11, 2021 Brown Class of 1991 Ph.D. graduate wins Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences Guido Imbens, a Stanford University economist who received his Ph.D. from Brown in 1991, was recognized for his major role in analyzing causal relationships in the social sciences. News and Events | September 16, 2021 New center and residence hall realizes Brown’s vision for integrated student wellness experience The University’s recently opened health and wellness center and residence hall is bringing together students and staff committed to promoting student well-being through collaborative care and community building. News and Events | July 29, 2021 Medal for Bears softball great highlights Brown student, alumni athletes in Summer Olympics Class of 2016 graduate Janet Leung earned bronze with Team Canada in women’s softball, while five other Brown Bears are competing in track and field, swimming and rowing events. News and Events | July 22, 2021 Brown acquires residential building to offer affordable, high-quality housing for 270 graduate students The University will transition River House, home to a mix of studio, one-bedroom and two-bedroom apartments in the Jewelry District, to affordable, safe, campus-accessible housing for graduate students. Health and Medicine | June 10, 2021 A half-decade of progress at the Hassenfeld Institute is a high five for children’s health Launched five years ago with an ambitious vision, the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute is bringing together researchers, physicians, students and community partners to transform children’s health in Rhode Island and beyond. News and Events | June 7, 2021 With support from Brown, Providence’s Hope High School opens 21st-century library and media center Backed by $150,000 from the Fund for the Education of the Children of Providence, the transformed space offers students reimagined study areas, new technology and furniture, and an expanded collection of books and periodicals. News and Events | May 2, 2021 In spirited celebration, Brown community commemorates Class of 2021’s resilience, ability to improvise In two College ceremonies on Sunday, Brown President Christina H. Paxson and other speakers lauded graduates who, by successfully finishing their degrees during a pandemic, have proven they can handle whatever comes next. Health and Medicine | May 12, 2021 Brain-computer interface creates text on screen by decoding brain signals associated with handwriting Using a brain-computer interface, a clinical trial participant was able to create text on a computer at a rate of 90 characters per minute just by thinking about the movements involved in writing by hand. Health and Medicine | April 28, 2021 With $30 million in support, Brown launches Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research By bringing together biomedical research and discovery with world-class physician-scientists advancing care for patients with Alzheimer’s, the center aims to accelerate the pace of development for novel treatments and cures. News and Events | April 17, 2021 Passages: Brown University President Emeritus Vartan Gregorian The University’s 16th president from 1989 to 1997, Gregorian was an accomplished scholar, historian and transformative leader for Brown, the New York Public Library and the Carnegie Corporation of New York. University Initiatives | April 1, 2021 Phase II of Brown’s Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan to focus on equity, inclusion In launching Phase II of its ambitious action plan, Brown assessed progress to date, reaffirmed the essential role of diversity and inclusion to academic excellence, and outlined new actions toward a more fully equitable community. Health and Medicine | March 10, 2021 As public health dominates public conversation, Brown receives record number of MPH applications The number of applications for Brown’s master of public health program is more than double that of last year, with the largest increases coming from people of color. Health and Medicine | February 23, 2021 Brown, Lifespan, Care New England to create integrated academic health system Lifespan and Care New England signed a definitive agreement to merge and create, with Brown and its Warren Alpert Medical School, an integrated academic health system, together for a healthier Rhode Island — Brown invests $125 million in support. Science and Technology | February 18, 2021 Mars rover touches down at Brown-discovered landing site The Perseverance rover will look for signs of ancient life in Jezero crater, a spot Brown researchers have studied for years and championed during the landing site-selection process. University Initiatives | February 3, 2021 With a focus on serving Rhode Island communities, Brown deepens its partnership with United Way Brown Gives has raised millions of dollars over decades to support United Way in helping Rhode Islanders in need, and the University has pledged a four-year commitment to support the organization’s new strategic plan. News and Events | January 28, 2021 Brown alumna Janet Yellen first woman to serve as treasury secretary The Class of 1967 Brown graduate and former Federal Reserve chair will advise President Joseph Biden and his cabinet on economic issues. Student Life | January 20, 2021 Excitement, energy and a desire to explore: Class of 2024 undergrads arrive at Brown After a postponed arrival due to the pandemic, Brown’s 1,756 first-year undergraduate students began their first term at the University on Wednesday, Jan. 20 — and five of them shared their stories. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search The year in stories — 2021 Open details for The year in stories — 2021 Bookmark this Page