Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Science and Technology Studies STS Colloquium Series Science and Technology Studies STS Colloquium Series Spring Semester 2022 Banu Subramaniam, "Decolonizing Botany" Thursday, April 21, 1 pm Sharpe House, room 125 (79 Brown Street) Banu Subramaniam is Professor and Chair of Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies at UMass Amherst. She is the author of the award-winning books Ghost Stories for Darwin: The Science of Variation and the Politics of Diversity (2014) and Holy Science: The Biopolitics of Hindu Nationalism (2019), as well as numerous articles and co-edited volumes. Her talk will draw on her current book project, "Decolonizing Botany." Abstract: What does it mean to do botany as a feminist? Drawing on recent interdisciplinary scholarship, I show how gender, race, class, sexuality, and nation shape the foundational language, terminology, and theories of modern botany, and how botany remains grounded in the violence of its colonial pasts. Decolonizing Botany reckons with these difficult origins and lays a roadmap that brings scholarship from the humanities and the sciences to reimagine the practices of experimental biology. How to Make a Copy: Precision, Plenitude, and the Work of Image Reproduction Mal Ahern, Assistant Professor of Cinema and Media Studies, University of Washington Thursday, April 14, 12:00 - 1:30 Sharpe House Room 125 Mass media relies on the large-scale reproduction of pictures through mechanical and electronic means. This talk imagines image reproduction as a site of social and aesthetic struggle. In the United States at midcentury, new forms of automation threatened to displace skilled workers in printing pressrooms, film laboratories, and projection booths. Cybernetic theories and new computation technologies collided with craft techniques, leaving visible traces across the supposedly uniform mass image. Misprints and distortions revealed the image’s formal infrastructure in disjointed layers, swarms of dots, and hallucinogenic flicker. Drawing on examples from the end of World War II to the advent of computer graphics in the 1970s, this talk will show that historical struggles over image reproduction can help us reframe later pushes towards digitization and media convergence. The emergence of the digital image in the late 20th century was perhaps the ultimate means of automating the work of image reproduction. Mal Ahern Thursday, Feb. 10, 12:00 - 1:00 Chanda Prescod-Weinstein, "Black Feminist Physics" On Zoom - Registration Required: https://brown.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJEvcuugrT8rEtMiXTq9KfqYeQ4CaiggbYyG Dr. Chanda Prescod-Weinstein is an assistant professor of physics and astronomy and core faculty in women’s and gender studies at the University of New Hampshire. Originally from East L.A., Dr. Prescod-Weinstein is a graduate of Harvard College, University of California — Santa Cruz, and the University of Waterloo. One of under 100 Black American women to earn a PhD from a department of physics, she is a theoretical physicist with expertise in particle physics, cosmology, and astrophysics, with an emphasis on dark matter. In addition, Dr. Prescod-Weinstein is a theorist of Black feminist science, technology, and society studies, and a monthly columnist for New Scientist. Her research and advocacy for marginalized people in physics and astronomy have won multiple awards, and her first book, The Disordered Cosmos: A Journey into Dark Matter, Spacetime, and Dreams Deferred, is now available from Bold Type Books. Mark your calendars for future events: April 21 Noon: Banu Subramaniam University of Massachusetts, Amherst "Decolonizing Botany" Fall Semester 2021 Reflections on Choreorobotics (Professors Sydney Skybetter and Stephanie Tellex) Thursday, October 7th at noon. Zoom: https://brown.zoom.us/j/98293681256 Reflections on Choreorobotics Spring Semester 2021 Reflections on Gaming and STS Wednesday, April 17th at noon. Please join us for a conversation between Kiri Miller and Enongo Lumumba-Kasongo Enongo Lumumba-Kasongo is a Gateway Postdoctoral Fellow in the Department of Music at Brown and postdoctoral fellow at the Cogut Institute for the Humanities, where she teaches courses in rap songwriting and feminist sound studies. She earned her Ph.D. in Science & Technology Studies from Cornell University in 2019. Her doctoral research explores the politics of community-studios, a term she has developed for fixed and mobile recording studios that prioritize working with artists from “underserved” communities as well as women and non-binary artists with the goal of providing these groups with free and low-cost recording services and education. In addition to her research and pedagogical practice, she also performs original music as a producer and rapper under the moniker Sammus. In 2019 she began working as an audio director at Glow Up Games, an R&D game studio responsible for developing a rap composition video game based on the HBO scripted series "Insecure." Drawing on her experience working on the game, her forthcoming research will focus on the challenges of designing rap composition tools that prioritize hip-hop heads and gamers while engaging with broader cultural conversations about problematic yet ubiquitous phenomena like “digital blackface,” “blackfishing,” and the “blaccent” as they are performed and circulated on apps like TikTok and Instagram. Kiri Miller is Professor of American Studies at Brown. Her work focuses on participatory culture, popular music, interactive digital media, and virtual/visceral performance practices. Her latest book, Playable Bodies: Dance Games and Intimate Media (Oxford, 2017), investigates how dance video games teach choreography, remediate popular music, invite experimentation with gendered and racialized movement styles, and stage domestic surveillance as intimate recognition. It was awarded the Alan Merriam Book Prize from the Society for Ethnomusicology and the Dance Studies Association de la Torre Bueno Prize. Her previous monographs are Playing Along: Digital Games, YouTube, and Virtual Performance (Oxford, 2012) and Traveling Home: Sacred Harp Singing and American Pluralism (Illinois, 2008). Save the date for a future event: Reflections on Art, Poetry, and STS Wednesday, March 17 at noon Professors Lindsay Caplan (History of Art and Architecture) and Ada Smailbegovic (English) in conversation about art, poetry, and STS Zoom link for March 17: https://brown.zoom.us/j/99560366715?pwd=VW9wRitqWXBiNXovMk1TYi9MTWVxQT09 Thursday, October 29, 12-1 pm: Expertise and the Pandemic: Reflections from the anthropology and history of medicine Please join us for a conversation between Katherine Mason and Deborah Levine about STS, expertise, and the Covid-19 pandemic. --Katherine Mason is the Vartan Gregorian Assistant Professor of Anthropology at Brown University and author of the award-winning book, Infectious Change: Reinventing Chinese Public Health after an Epidemic. Prof. Mason has written several articles about SARS and Covid-19, including in Current History and Fieldsights, and she is the co-lead investigator for the Pandemic Journaling Project. --Deborah Levine is Associate Professor and Chair of the Department of Health Policy and Management at Providence College. A historian of medicine who regularly writes and teaches on health policy, Prof. Levine has recently drawn on insights from the history of medicine in articles in the Washington Post about vaccines and low-tech technologies for managing Covid-19. Home Faculty Undergraduate Courses Graduate Resources News STS Colloquium Series Print this Page Share this Page Program in Science, Technology, and Society Brown University Box 1868 67 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-7034 Fax 401-863-7589 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Undergraduate Science and Society DUG ASK (Advising Sidekick) Focal Point Science Center Connect Facebook Twitter