Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Master of Social Work (MSW) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Master of Social Work (MSW) Apply Request More Info Master of Social Work (MSW) Accreditation Admissions Information Clinical Education and Fieldwork Departmental Research Online Master of Social Work (MSW) Program Outcomes Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Social Work Students learn to advance social and economic justice through the rigorous Master of Social Work (MSW) in the School of Social Work, part of Temple’s College of Public Health. Professional training in clinical skills and evidence-based practices will enable you to support and advocate for vulnerable populations including children, the elderly and those living in poverty. This highly regarded MSW program also serves as a laboratory for building resilient and healthy communities by focusing on capacity building, policy advocacy and support of at-risk populations. The field of social work addresses a wide range of social issues, including juvenile justice, poverty, substance abuse, violence against minorities, ex-offender rehabilitation, housing discrimination, immigration issues and others. The Temple MSW maximizes flexibility for working professionals. Students can complete the master’s program in person full time or part time, or completely online part time. You are also able to customize your degree based on your interests and career goals: Students select from a range of advanced-level coursework that allows them to examine in greater depth a practice modality (or concentration) and a field of practice (or specialization). With the versatility of a Master of Social Work degree, you will be equipped for careers in a wide variety of fields, including community-based healthcare, public policy, mental health counseling, child protection, hospital care coordination and advocacy. Our graduates work as community organizers, therapists, managers in social services and healthcare systems, and program directors. What sets apart our Master of Social Work? Real-world experience: You will learn to integrate theory and hands-on skills through field practicum courses. Students can secure placements at more than 500 human service and social change organizations in the Philadelphia region and beyond. Renowned faculty: The School of Social Work's faculty are nationally-recognized experts in areas such as aging, children and families, disability, incarceration, LGBTQ health, mental health, and substance abuse. Student and faculty diversity: Our students come from a broad range of ethnic, socioeconomic and geographic backgrounds, and a variety of life experiences. This enriches classroom interactions, both in theory- and practice-oriented courses. Concentrations With the guidance of an academic advisor, students choose a concentration that reflects their career goals. Concentrations Clinical Practice with Individuals and Families You will train to work as a clinical therapist with individuals, families and groups in both outpatient and inpatient settings. Career options include case management, hospital discharge planning, service brokering and private practice. Macro Practice in Organizations, Communities and Policy Arenas You will train to lead nonprofit and governmental agencies, or focus on community organizing or policy. Students develop management skills and learn to promote systemic change in institutions, from national agencies to neighborhood organizations. Program Format Depending on their academic history, students will complete one of two MSW program formats. The Regular Entry MSW program (60 credits) can be completed full time in two years, or part time in three to four years. Alternately, those who have earned a BSW within the past five years may be eligible for the Advanced Standing MSW program (34.5 credits of coursework, along with 25.5 credits transferred from the BSW). The Advanced Standing MSW can be completed full time in 12 months or part time in 18 months. The Regular Entry MSW program is available on-site (full time or part time) or fully online (part time). The Advanced Standing MSW program is available on-site only; it will be available online beginning in summer 2019. Courses in both versions of the program are also offered during the summer on Temple’s Main Campus, and on Saturdays during the fall and spring semesters at Temple’s Center City campus. Core courses include topics in public policy, research methods and practice, and social justice. You will also complete field practicum experiences with human service or social change agencies. See a full list of program courses. MSW-MPH Dual Degree The College of Public Health offers a dual degree program that allows students to earn both an MSW and an MPH degree. Full-time students can complete the dual degree in three years, and part-time students can complete it in four years. The program prepares professionals to assess, understand and address health-related concerns that impact the well-being of communities, individuals and populations. Online program options are available for both the MSW and the MPH. Two MPH programs are available in the dual degree: the MPH in Social and Behavioral Sciences and the MPH in Health Policy and Management. Learn more about the MSW-MPH dual degree option. Related Graduate Degrees in the College of Public Health Master of Public Health in Social and Behavioral Sciences Master of Public Health in Health Policy and Management Master of Public Health in Epidemiology Master of Public Health in Applied Biostatistics PhD in Social and Behavioral Sciences Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Social Work offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Online program: $1,000 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers personalized advising services to students in each department. Karin Eyrich-Garg Interim Advisor Phone: 215-204-1217 Email: karin.eyrich-garg@temple.edu Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. SW-SSWG-MSW Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Master of Social Work (MSW) Accreditation Admissions Information Clinical Education and Fieldwork Departmental Research Online Master of Social Work (MSW) Program Outcomes Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info