Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Arts and Sciences Classics 262 Denny Hall 206-543-2266 Website Faculty Website clasdept@uw.edu Classics concerns itself with the languages and cultures of the ancient Greeks and Romans, whose civilizations had a central role in shaping the basic conceptual categories of our present cultural, intellectual, professional, and civic lives. Study of Latin and Ancient Greek and the cultures of ancient Rome and Greece fosters broad and deeply informed critical perspectives on the human experience and develops excellent analytical, problem-solving and communication skills. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Classical Studies Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Classical Studies Program of Study: Major: Classics Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Classics Program of Study: Major: Greek Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Greek Program of Study: Major: Latin Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Latin Program of Study: Minor: Classics Minor in Classical Studies Minor in Classics and Ancient History Program of Study: Minor: Greek Minor in Greek Program of Study: Minor: Latin Minor in Latin Graduate Programs Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Classics) Doctor Of Philosophy (Classics) Doctor Of Philosophy (Classics: Ancient Philosophy) Doctor Of Philosophy (Classics: Textual Studies) Doctor Of Philosophy (Classics: Theory And Criticism) Program of Study: Master Of Arts (Classics) Master Of Arts (Classics) Undergraduate Programs Classics 262 Denny Hall 206-543-2266 clasdept@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Classical Studies Program Overview Classics concerns itself with the languages and cultures of the ancient Greeks and Romans, whose civilizations had a central role in shaping the basic conceptual categories of our present cultural, intellectual, professional, and civic lives. Study of Ancient Greek and Latin and the cultures of ancient Greece and Rome fosters broad and deeply informed critical perspectives on the human experience and develops excellent analytical, problem-solving and communication skills. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Classical Studies Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First- and second-year Latin and/or classical Greek, classics in translation, ancient history, classical art and archaeology, ancient philosophy. Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Classical Studies Credential Overview The Bachelor of Arts in Classical Studies is especially suited to students wishing to explore the literature, history, art, archaeology, and philosophy of ancient Greece and Rome primarily through English translations. Students with no previous exposure to ancient Greek or Latin can complete the Classical Studies major in two years. Completion Requirements 61-67 credits Especially suited for students not preparing for graduate study in classics but wishing to explore the literature, history, art, archaeology, and philosophy of classical antiquity, primarily through English translation. Either Greek or Latin through 307, or the equivalent (25-30 credits) 34 additional credits chosen with department approval from the following courses: Greek and Latin at the 400 level; classics in English, classical art and archaeology, ancient history, the history of ancient philosophy, and the history of ancient science. See adviser for approved list CLAS 495 (2-3 credits) Note: Competence to take 400-level courses which count toward the Latin, Greek, and classics majors generally requires four-to-six quarters (20-30 credits) of previous study. Back to Top Program of Study: Major: Classics Program Overview The BA in Classics allows students to develop advanced expertise in both ancient Greek and Latin to explore the cultural, social and artistic life of the ancient Greek and Roman world and its continuing relevance to contemporary life. Many students participate in the Department's study abroad programs in Rome or elsewhere. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Classics Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First- and second-year Latin and/or classical Greek, classics in translation, ancient history, classical art and archaeology, ancient philosophy. Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Classics Credential Overview Students who complete a B.A. in Classics develop advanced proficiency in Latin and ancient Greek and the literatures and cultures of ancient Greece and Rome. This degree provides excellent preparation for the study of the ancient world at the graduate level. Completion Requirements 67-68 credits 15 credits of 300-level classical Greek, excluding GREEK 300, GREEK 301 15 credits of 300-level Latin, excluding LATIN 300, LATIN 301 Minimum 30 credits in 400-level GREEK and LATIN courses, with at least 10 credits in each language 5 credits from approved classics in English, classical art and archaeology, ancient history, the history of ancient philosophy, and the history of ancient science. See adviser for approved list. CLAS 495 (2-3 credits) Back to Top Program of Study: Major: Greek Program Overview Learning ancient Greek allows direct access to the thoughts and writings of the ancient Greeks and the dynamic world in which they lived and wrote. The study of ancient Greek fosters robust historical perspectives and develops strong analytical and communication skills that serve students well in a variety of careers. Many students participate in study abroad programs focused on the ancient world, including the department's programs in Rome. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Greek Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First- and second-year Latin and/or classical Greek, classics in translation, ancient history, classical art and archaeology, ancient philosophy. Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Greek Credential Overview The B.A. in Greek allows students to develop advanced expertise in the language, literature and culture of ancient Greece. Completion Requirements 52-58 credits Either GREEK 101, GREEK 102, GREEK 103; or GREEK 300, GREEK 301 (10-15 credits) 15 credits of 300-level GREEK courses, excluding GREEK 300 and GREEK 301 20 credits of 400-level GREEK courses 5 credits from approved classics in English, classical art and archaeology, ancient history, the history of ancient philosophy, and the history of ancient science. See adviser for approved list. CLAS 495 (2-3 credits) Back to Top Program of Study: Major: Latin Program Overview Learning Latin provides direct access to the thoughts and writings of the ancient Romans and the dynamic social, cultural and political world in which they lived and wrote. The study of Latin develops robust historical perspectives and strong analytical and communication skills that serve students well in a variety of careers. Many students participate in the Department's excellent study abroad program in Rome. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Latin Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First- and second-year Latin and/or classical Greek, classics in translation, ancient history, classical art and archaeology, ancient philosophy. Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Latin Credential Overview The B.A. in Latin allows students to develop advanced expertise in the Latin language and the literature and culture of ancient Rome. Completion Requirements 52-58 credits Either LATIN 101, LATIN 102, LATIN 103; or LATIN 300, LATIN 301 (10-15 credits) 15 credits of 300-level LATIN courses, excluding LATIN 300 and LATIN 301 20 credits of 400-level LATIN courses 5 credits from approved classics in English, classical art and archaeology, ancient history, the history of ancient philosophy, and the history of ancient science. See adviser for approved list. CLAS 495 (2-3 credits) Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Classics Program Overview The Minor in Classical Studies allows students to explore the cultures, history, literatures and civilizations of Ancient Greece and Rome from a variety of perspectives while participating in the Classics Department's vibrant and collegial intellectual community. Students minoring in Classical Studies have access to the Department's seminar room and are encouraged to participate in the Department's quarter-long program in Rome. The Department makes every effort to work with students who wish to complete a minor. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Minor in Classical Studies Minor in Classics and Ancient History Minor in Classical Studies Credential Overview The Minor in Classical Studies allows students to explore the cultures, history, literatures and civilizations of Ancient Greece and Rome from a variety of perspectives while participating in the Classics Department's vibrant and collegial intellectual community. Students minoring in Classical Studies have access to the Department's seminar room and are encouraged to participate in the Department's quarter-long program in Rome. The Department makes every effort to work with students who wish to complete a minor. Completion Requirements 25 credits 25 credits chosen with departmental approval from classics in English, classical art and archaeology, ancient history, history of ancient philosophy, and history of ancient science, or up to 15 credits of Latin or Greek. See department website for list of approved courses. Minimum 15 credits must be at the 300/400 level. Back to Top Minor in Classics and Ancient History Credential Overview The Minor in Classics and Ancient History allows students to combine coursework in History with courses in Classical Studies and Classical Archaeology to explore the history of Ancient Greece and Rome while participating in the Classics Department's vibrant and collegial intellectual community. Students minoring in Classics and Ancient History have access to the Department's seminar room and are encouraged to participate in the Department's quarter-long program in Rome. The Minor in Classics and Ancient History is not available to students pursuing majors or other minors in the Classics Department. Completion Requirements 30 credits 30 credits from the course list below, including at least 20 upper-division credits (15 of which must be taken at the UW). 100-level credit is not accepted. Minimum 10 credits from each department (Classics and History). A minimum grade of 2.0 is required in each course. Not available to students pursuing majors or other minors in classics. Courses: CLAS 210, CLAS 320, CLAS 322, CLAS 324, CLAS 326, CLAS 328, CLAS 330, CLAS 424, CLAS 427, CLAS 428, CLAS 430, CLAS 432, CLAS 435, CLAS 445, CLAS 496 (except when topic is medieval); CL AR 340, CL AR 341, CL AR 342, CL AR 343, CL AR 442, CL AR 443, CL AR 444, CL AR 446, CL AR 447, CL AR 448; GREEK (all upper-division courses except GREEK 300 and GREEK 301); LATIN (all upper-division courses except LATIN 300, LATIN 301, LATIN 401, and LATIN 402); HSTAM 205, HSTAM 302, HSTAM 312, HSTAM 313, HSTAM 314, HSTAM 330, HSTAM 401, HSTAM 402, HSTAM 403; HIST 490 (when topic is ancient), HIST 498 (when topic is ancient). Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Greek Program Overview The Minor in Greek allows students to gain an in-depth knowledge of Ancient Greek language, literature and civilization. Minors can take full advantage of the Classics Department's vibrant and collegial intellectual community and can, if they wish, participate in the Department's undergraduate seminar. Students minoring in Greek have access to the Department's seminar room and are encouraged to participate in the Department's quarter-long program in Rome. The Department makes every effort to work with students who wish to complete a minor. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Greek Minor in Greek Completion Requirements Minimum 30 credits 25 credits in Greek and 5 credits chosen with departmental approval from classics in English, classical art and archaeology, ancient history, history of ancient philosophy, and history of ancient science. Minimum 15 credits must be at the 300/400 level. See department for list of acceptable courses. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Latin Program Overview The Minor in Latin allows students to gain an in-depth knowledge of the Latin language, and ancient Roman literature and civilization. Minors can take full advantage of the Classics Department's vibrant and collegial intellectual community and can, if they wish, take the Department's undergraduate seminar. Students minoring in Latin have access to the Department's seminar room and are encouraged to participate in the Department's quarter-long program in Rome. The Department makes every effort to work with students who wish to complete a minor. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Latin Minor in Latin Completion Requirements Minimum 30 credits 25 credits in Latin and 5 credits chosen with departmental approval from classics in English, classical art and archaeology, ancient history, history of ancient philosophy, and history of ancient science. Minimum 15 credits must be at the 300/400 level. See department for list of acceptable courses. Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: The undergraduate study of classics emphasizes critical analysis of language and culture and clear and effective writing. The BA with a major in classics is a respected terminal degree in itself. Like other degree programs in the humanities, it emphasizes the acquisition of those analytic and communications skills which are indispensable for careers in government, journalism, law, industry, medicine, and business. The classics major (especially in its more language-intensive forms) is often a mark of distinction when a graduate applies for admission to professional school. Many who take the bachelor's degree in classics go on to pursue graduate work in the subject at leading PhD programs. Graduates include winners of prestigious national awards such as Mellon Fellowships for graduate study and the Rhodes Scholarship. Instructional and Research Facilities: The departmental office provides access to several computers for research and coursework. The Classics Department sponsors numerous lectures by distinguished speakers visiting from universities in this country and abroad; undergraduates are always welcome to attend. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors). With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: None offered. Department Scholarships: Jim Greenfield Undergraduate Scholarship is intended for undergraduate majors in classics. The object of the Jim Greenfield scholarship is to enable exceptionally well-qualified students to devote the maximum time and energy to their study of the classics at the University of Washington. While the first criterion is academic promise, an applicant's current means of support is also taken into consideration; therefore, the amount of the award may vary from partial tuition to full tuition and some expenses. Successful candidates may reapply for the following year. Jim Greenfield Undergraduate Travel Bursaries: Jim Greenfield Undergraduate Travel Bursaries may be used for the department's Rome program, for travel associated with participation in archaeological excavations, for independent travel to areas of classical interest, or for other kinds of study-related travel for which the applicant can make a cogent case. In some cases an award might allow a student to remain overseas for study travel in the wake of the department's Rome Program. Further information about applying for a Jim Greenfield Undergraduate Travel Bursary is available in the department office. In addition to the above, undergraduates are eligible to apply or be nominated for: Classics Students Travel Fund: provides financial support for students in the Classics Department who are intending to participate in the departmental Rome program or extramural programs, to attend conferences, or to travel to specific places in support of their studies. Harvey Bruce Densmore Memorial Fund: rewards distinguished undergraduate students of Greek. Student Organizations/Associations: None Of Special Note: CLAS 101, CLAS 102, CLAS 205, and HIST 111 may not be taken in fulfillment of major requirements for baccalaureate degrees in the Department of Classics. Classical Seminar in Rome: During spring quarter, the department offers instruction in classics for advanced undergraduate majors and graduate students at the University of Washington Rome Center, located in the Palazzo Pio on the Campo de Fiori. Graduate Programs Classics Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Classics) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Doctor Of Philosophy (Classics) Doctor Of Philosophy (Classics: Ancient Philosophy) Doctor Of Philosophy (Classics: Textual Studies) Doctor Of Philosophy (Classics: Theory And Criticism) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Classics) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Classics: Ancient Philosophy) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Classics: Textual Studies) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Classics: Theory And Criticism) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Arts (Classics) This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Arts (Classics) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Arts (Classics) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA