Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Students Contact your Advisor Advising Resources and Tools Transfer Credit Home Overview and Checklist Types of Transfer Credit Transfer Equivalency Database Credit Evaluation Forms Transfer Articulation Agreements Accreditation for Transfer Credit COVID-19 FAQs for Credit Evaluation College Credit Plus Home CCP Admission Requirements Apply to CCP Academic Advising Textbooks & Supplies High School Partnerships FAQ Contact 15 to Finish Students FAQ Resources For Advisors UC Advising Conference About Organization Advising Strategic Plan Assessment Home Overview and Checklist Types of Transfer Credit Transfer Equivalency Database Credit Evaluation Forms Transfer Articulation Agreements Accreditation for Transfer Credit COVID-19 FAQs for Credit Evaluation Home Transfer Credit Types of Transfer Credit Types of Transfer Credit Navigate by clicking below: Test Credits Advanced Standing Credits Military Credits or Military Transfer Assurance Guide (MTAG) Career Technical Credit (CTAG/CT2) or Transfer Assurance Guide Credits (TAG) Test Credits Test credits are awarded based on when the student took the exam for credit. Please refer to the award keys listed below under each test to determine credit transferability. Advanced Placement (AP) The State of Ohio has policies to facilitate the ease of transition from high school to college, and between Ohio’s public colleges and universities. These policies mandate the following: Students obtaining an Advanced Placement (AP) exam score of 3 or above will be awarded the aligned course(s) and credits for the AP exam area(s) successfully completed. General Education courses and credits received will be applied towards graduation and will satisfy a general education requirement if the course(s) to which the AP area is equivalent fulfill a requirement. If an equivalent course is not available for the AP exam area completed, elective or area credit will be awarded in the appropriate academic discipline and will be applied towards graduation where such elective credit options exist within the academic major Additional courses or credits may be available when a score of 4 or 5 is obtained. Award of credit for higher score values varies depending on the institution and academic discipline In academic disciplines containing highly dependent sequences(Sciences, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics-STEM), students are strongly advised to confer with the college/university advising staff to ensure they have the appropriate foundation to be successful in advanced coursework within the sequence. 2020-Present AP Awards 2017-2020 AP Awards 2015-2016 AP Awards 2014-2015 AP Awards 2013-2014 AP Awards College-Level Examination Program (CLEP) The College-Level Examination Program (CLEP) gives students the opportunity to earn credit for prior knowledge by earning qualifying scores on CLEP examinations. Please visit Testing Services for exam offerings. Please be advised that scores that do not meet minimum requirements will not be considered for credit. Please consult your assigned academic advisor before taking a CLEP exam to find out exactly how CLEP credits will apply to your degree program. If you are a veteran or other military personnel, please visit CollegeBoard’s Website for important information about CLEP testing. CLEP Key May 1, 2018 - Present CLEP Key January 1, 2018 – April 30, 2018 CLEP Key August 1, 2017 and December 31, 2017 CLEP Key July 1, 2001 and July 31, 2017 International Baccalaureate (IB) The International Baccalaureate Diploma Program (IBDP) is designed for high school students. IB schools have been established around the world to educate students with a global perspective. Students who complete all requirements receive an IB Diploma. Students who do not complete all requirements may receive an IB certificate. Students must be awarded an IB Diploma and must receive a score of 5 or higher for transfer credit. IB Key 2015-present IB Key 2014-2015 IB Key 2013-2014 Advanced (A) Levels and Advanced Subsidiary (AS) Levels Advanced Levels (A-Levels) and Advanced Subsidiary Levels (AS-Levels) are exam-based qualifications offered across a range of subjects. These qualifications may be offered by different organizations depending on where you attend secondary education. For evaluation of A-Levels or AS-Levels for transfer credit, official documentation must be sent from the testing organization to the University of Cincinnati (e.g. Cambridge International, Pearson EdExcel, OFQUAL, etc.) A-Level and AS-Level Award Key DANTES Subject Standardized Tests (DSST) DSST exams are organized by the United States Department of Defense’s Defense Activity for Non-Traditional Education Support (DANTES) program to provide students credit by examination. Please visit University of Cincinnati Testing Services for more information and testing availability. DSST Exam Award Key Global Assessment Certificate (GAC) Program The Global Assessment Certificate (GAC) Program consists of modules and electives to prepare students for University at various Approved Teaching Centers (ATC) around the world. Official GAC transcripts must be sent from ACT.org to the University of Cincinnati for transfer credit consideration. GAC Award Key ► Back to Top Advanced Standing Credits Advanced Standing credits may be awarded by the student's home college when credits are not automatically evaluated by our central Credit Evaluation Office. Advanced Standing credit award policies vary depending on home college. Please consult your assigned academic advisor at your home college if you believe you may be eligible for advanced standing credit. Designated home college administrators will need to complete and submit an advanced standing form to Credit Evaluation on behalf of a student for processing if advanced standing credit is to be awarded. International Coursework Students transferring from foreign universities must submit course-by-course credit evaluation from a member of the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) to UC’s Office of International Admissions, in addition to an official, original transcript from the foreign institution. An excellent example of an affordable NACES member company is SpanTran. Once received, information will be sent automatically to the home college for possible transfer credit award. For more information or questions pertaining to international transfer, please consult the University of Cincinnati Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Study Abroad Students wishing to receive credit for study abroad programs must coordinate and receive prior approval from UC International’s Study Abroad office. Please reach out to Study Abroad for additional information and processes. Credit-By-Exam and Competency Based Education Credit-by-examination may be listed on college transcripts for proficiency examinations developed by a college or university. For example, students may have credit by examination work when college credits are awarded only if the student successfully completes an assessment exam after completing coursework. Competency based education are credits that are awarded to students who demonstrate mastery of knowledge or skills based on instruction, assessment, and grading. For example, some institutions may provide credits for coursework that is personalized, flexible, and/or may be completed by “learning-at-your-own-pace.” UC does not automatically award transfer credit for credit-by-examination work or competency-based education. Please contact your home college to request review of these credits for possible advanced standing award. Prior Learning Prior Learning credits are earned in one of two ways: Review of certifications, licensure, or other demonstrable competencies gained through prior experience(s). Assessment of student produced, faculty assessed documentation of college-level learning gained through work and other experiences. Please contact your home college to determine whether policies and procedures pertaining to prior learning assessment credits. ► Back to Top Military Credits and MTAGs Joint Service Transcripts (JST) and Air Force Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard service members with military credits for transfer must send an official transcript from Joint Services Transcript (JST) Services to the University of Cincinnati Air Force members must send an official transcript from the Community College of the Air Force to the University of Cincinnati. Military credits are automatically awarded Military Science block credit unless the credits may be applicable towards general education coursework. Military-based experience credits are not automatically awarded transfer credit unless the student’s home college wishes to award advanced standing credit for military-based experience. Military Transfer Assurance Guides (MTAGs) Military Transfer Assurance Guides (MTAGs) provide statewide alignment of military training, experience, and/or coursework between public institutions of higher education in Ohio. Please visit the Ohio Department of Higher Education’s website for more information regarding MTAGs. An MTAG transfer lookup tool is also available from the state of Ohio. ► Back to Top Career Technical Credit and Transfer Assurance Guides Career Technical Credit (CTAG/CT2) The State of Ohio has policies and procedures to ensure that students can transfer agreed upon technical courses at adult career-technical education institutions or secondary career-technical education institutions “without unnecessary duplication or institutional barriers.” Award of this credit is aligned per Ohio Career Transfer Assurance Guides (CTAG). The University of Cincinnati requires a verification form to be sent directly from the career-technical education institution for career technical credit to be awarded. Please have any verification forms sent to the following address: University of Cincinnati Credit Evaluation PO Box 210202 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0202 If you do not find your CTAG award posted to your Catalyst student account, please complete out a CTAG request form. Transfer Assurance Guides (TAGs) and Ohio Transfer Module (OTM) Transfer Assurance Guides (TAGs) provide alignment of transfer coursework across Ohio Public Institutions to “without unnecessary duplication or institutional barriers” for students. Ohio Transfer Module (OTM) courses belong to a set of general education requirements that students can complete and transfer. The State of Ohio has published TAG and OTM Course Reporting Systems. Office of Advising & Academic Services 2618 McMicken Circle University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221-0202 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.