Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Ambassadors January 15, 2021 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email The arrival of the first COVID-19 vaccine doses on our campus last month was a historic moment for our community and for the patients and communities we serve. Since that time, approximately 38,000 staff at NewYork-Presbyterian, Weill Cornell, and Columbia have been vaccinated. More than 16,300 individuals at NYP's Columbia campus who work in patient care areas—including more than 6,900 Columbia employees and students—have received their first doses. More than 9,700 second doses have been administered. Since early 2020, CUIMC faculty and staff have served on the front lines of the COVID pandemic and have borne witness to its devasting toll. Many are sharing their own personal reasons for getting vaccinated and why vaccination is critical to ending the pandemic and its suffering. cuimc_vaccine_ambassadors "I'm very optimistic. I recommend this vaccine to my family, to my patients, to my friends, to all my coworkers," said Rafael Lantigua, MD, professor of medicine at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons and associate dean for community service. "Let's do it together, and we're going to be healthy together." "The one way for us to further the Black Lives Matter agenda—for us to literally save Black lives, who are dying disproportionately from this disease—is for us to take the vaccine," says Olajide Williams, MD, MS, professor and chief of staff in the Department of Neurology at the Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. If you are interested in sharing why you were vaccinated or will get vaccinated, please email covid19questions@cumc.columbia.edu. COVID-19 Vaccine Information for CUIMC Employees For more information on vaccine distribution for CUIMC employees, please visit COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top