Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Parents Alumni News/Media Faculty/Staff Apply Give Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream Search Navigate Search Social SMU About Administration Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs SMU Facts SMU Facts Campus profile Academic offerings Administration Prominent alumni Intercollegiate athletics Location and facilities Student life Undergraduate costs Maps and directions Maps and directions Campus Map Directions to SMU Parking at SMU Download and print maps Building addresses Accessibility SMU-in-Taos Strategic Plan Contact SMU Administration About SMU / Administration / Paul Ward Paul Ward Paul J. Ward is Vice President for Legal Affairs, General Counsel, and Secretary to the Board of Trustees at Southern Methodist University, a position he has held since 2009. The General Counsel of Southern Methodist University serves as the chief legal advisor to the President, Board of Trustees, and University officers and administrators, and is responsible for oversight of all legal matters impacting the University, including those involving institutional governance, intellectual property and licensing, research contracts and compliance, charitable giving, employment matters, student-related issues, real estate, taxation, and government regulations. Mr. Ward also serves as an adjunct faculty member in the Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education and Human Development. Mr. Ward is a frequent speaker on legal issues and has authored papers and other publications on higher education law. Prior to SMU, Mr. Ward served as Vice President for University Administration and General Counsel at Arizona State University from 2004 to 2008. He served as General Counsel to ASU from 1991 to 2008. As Vice President for University Administration, his areas of responsibility included human resources, the police department, university audit and advisory services, and the risk management and environmental health and safety department. Mr. Ward also served as an adjunct faculty member in the Sandra Day O’Connor College of Law and the Mary Lou Fulton College of Education at ASU. Prior to his association with ASU, he served the University of South Carolina System as General Counsel from 1979 to 1991. Previously, he was engaged in private practice in the Washington, D.C., office of Casey, Lane & Mittendorf. Mr. Ward served as president (1996-97) and as a member of the Board of Directors (1988-92 and 1993-98) of the National Association of College and University Attorneys (NACUA). In 1993, he established NACUA’s electronic discussion list, NACUANET, which has more than 5,000 participating members in the United States and eight foreign countries. In June 2000, he received the prestigious Distinguished Service Award from NACUA. He served as a member of the NCAA General Counsel Advisory Board from 2000-2010. Also, he has served in the American Bar Association House of Delegates. In 2002, Mr. Ward received the Thomas S. Biggs Award at the Stetson University College of Law, National Conference on Law of Higher Education. Mr. Ward is an AV Preeminent Peer Review Rated, Martindale-Hubbell's highest peer recognition for ethical standards and legal ability. Mr. Ward was the recipient of the 2020 Robert H. Dedman Award for Ethics & Law from the Texas General Counsel Forum. He is a Fellow of the Texas Bar Foundation. Mr. Ward graduated from the Southern Methodist University School of Law (J.D., 1975) and Eastern Illinois University (B.S., 1971; M.A., 1974). He has been admitted to practice law in Texas, Arizona, South Carolina, Indiana, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. Supreme Court. Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Report Sexual Harassment Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact SMU Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 SMU Twitter SMU Facebook SMU Instagram SMU Linked In SMU YouTube Social Media Directory"