Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Support Advocacy Medical care Safety planning Counseling Community resources How to help a friend Reporting Making a report to police Making a formal complaint to UW UW policies and code Get involved Sexual Assault Resources Menu Support Advocacy Medical care Safety planning Counseling Community resources How to help a friend Reporting Making a report to police Making a formal complaint to UW UW policies and code Get involved Home Sexual Assault Resources Sexual Assault Resources For those who experience sexual misconduct This website provides victims of sexual violence with an array of resources that reflect the University’s commitment to preventing and responding to sexual misconduct, including sexual assault, relationship violence, domestic violence, stalking, and sexual harassment. You may use these resources to get confidential support, to address safety concerns, to locate providers of medical care and counseling, and to learn how to report sexual assault. Contact confidential advocates Start with the University’s confidential advocates for support, information, and resources. How advocates can help Know Your Rights & Resources guide Explore information about support resources, reporting options, and University staff who may be able to assist. Learn more Seek care Physical and mental services are available to you through the University. Learn more about: Medical care Counseling Make a report You have the right to report sexual misconduct to the University, to the police, to both or to neither. Report to the University Report to police Learn about Title IX The Office of the Title IX Coordinator provides support across the University relating to compliance. Learn more Help a friend If a friend has experienced sexual misconduct, you can provide support. Learn more Creating a cultural shift Addressing sexual and gender-based violence requires a comprehensive approach to prevention that: Acknowledges that the vast majority of sexual misconduct is perpetrated by a person or persons known to the victim. Recognizes the complex and often co-occurring connection of alcohol and drugs and to sexual assault. Challenges any propensity for victim-blaming. Promotes the acceptance of – and affirms each individual’s right to – a broad spectrum of sexual choices. Understands and clearly defines the meaning and nature of consent. Taking a community approach Addressing sexual misconduct requires a holistic approach. We aim to raise awareness of issues, resources, and responsibilities among all members of the campus, providing each with the skills and efficacy to promote a caring community in which students are safe from sexual assault, harassment, and discrimination. Confidential Advocates Advocates provide a confidential place for you to seek support, information and assistance if you have experienced sexual assault, sexual harassment, intimate partner violence or stalking. LiveWell Confidential Advocates Serve employees at all UW locations and students enrolled at UW Seattle Email: lwadvoc@uw.edu Web: Livewell Confidential Advocates UW Bothell Violence Prevention and Advocacy Program Manager Serves students enrolled at UW Bothell Email: uwbvae@uw.edu 425-352-3851 UW Tacoma Confidential Advocate Serves students enrolled at UW Tacoma Email: uwtsva@uw.edu 253-692-4750 If you reach out to the resources listed on this site, you may expect to: Share as much or as little information as you would like. Learn about common reactions to sexual assault, intimate partner violence, stalking, sexual harassment, trauma, and other experiences. Learn about resources available to you, your rights, and your reporting options. Make a holistic plan for managing and reducing the impact of the experience. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA