Skip to main content Menu Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Research About Academics Home Colleges, Schools and Departments Degree Programs Libraries Academic Resources Academic Advising Academic Calendar Academic Eligibility Academic Integrity Academic Policies Academic Success Center Canvas LMS Academic Catalog, Graduate Academic Catalog, Undergraduate iROAR Registrar Schedule of Classes Clemson Online Related Links Centers and Institutes Clemson Computing Graduate School Office of the Provost Summer Session Undergraduate Studies Main Content Honorary Societies Alpha Epsilon Lambda (AEL) — Eta Chapter AEL is an honor society for graduate and professional school students. It recognizes students who are in the top 35 percent of their college. No more than 1 percent of these students are accepted each year. Blue Key The Clemson University Chapter of Blue Key is Clemson University's oldest and most respected honor fraternity. Golden Key Golden Key is an academic honor society that recognizes and encourages scholastic achievement and excellence among college and university students from all academic disciplines. The society awards its members more than $400,000 annually through numerous scholarship and award programs. Omicron Delta Kappa Omicron Delta Kappa National Leadership Honor Society recognizes Clemson University students who are top leaders in scholarship, athletics, service, mass media and performing arts at the University and in the community. Phi Beta Kappa — Delta Chapter of S.C. Clemson University counts itself among the 276 colleges and universities with a Phi Beta Kappa chapter, representing only 10 percent of the nation's institutions of higher learning. Phi Kappa Phi — Chapter 49 Phi Kappa Phi, the oldest and most selective honor society in the United States, recognizes excellence in all academic disciplines. Founded in 1897, Phi Kappa Phi is a charter member of the Association of College Honor Societies. Today, Phi Kappa Phi has more than one million members throughout the world. There are nearly 300 chapters at colleges and universities in the United States, Puerto Rico and the Philippines. Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram