Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University University Library Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Index Hours My Library Card Give Research & Collections Find Books & Media (Quick Search) Article Indexes & Databases e-Books e-Journals - A-Z list Specific Article by Citation or DOI Course Reserves Movies and TV Streaming Video Collections WorldCat (Open Access) Catalogs of Other Libraries Iowa State Collections DataShare: ISU's Data Repository Digital Collections Digital Initiatives Digital Press Digital Repository @ Iowa State University Special Collections and University Archives Research Help Research and Course Guides Quick Search Tips Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Material Find Audiovisual Materials Find Books Find Census Data Find Government Documents Find Images Find Legal Research Find Magazines, Journals Find Manuscripts and Archives Find Maps Find Microforms Find Newspapers and News Find Standards Cite Sources Cite Sources Overview Endnote Ask Us! Find Your Librarian Collections Areas Leisure Collection Media Center Periodical Room Reference Materials Call Numbers in Parks Library Library Storage Building Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Overview About the Design Reading Room Course Reserves - Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Staff Veterinary Medicine Library Restricted Building Access About the Vet Med Library Veterinary Medicine Library Staff Borrowing Main Desk Check Out and Return Request Books and More Pick From Shelf Service Recall or Hold an Item Renew an Item Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery (ILL/DD) ILL/DD Overview ILL/DD Account Login Interlibrary Loan FAQ Libraries Requesting ISU Materials Unaffiliated User Terms and Conditions Missing Items Loan Periods Fines (overdue/lost items) Book a Media Item for Classroom Use Who May Borrow? Your Library Card Help & Services Accessibility Services Accessibility Services Overview Services & Equipment Available Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Accessibility Services at Branch Libraries For You Services for Students Faculty & Instructors Distance Learners International Nest Alumni & Visitors Assistance Lost & Found Find Your Librarian Ask a Librarian How Do I ... Library FAQ Access E-Resources Access My Library Card Get Something That's Not Available Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Materials Cite Sources Quick Search Tips Teaching & Class Support Library Instruction Overview Library 160 Course-related Instruction Course Reserves Research and Course Guides Workshops Copyright Information Open Scholarship Services Binding theses Solution Center Systems Status Spaces & Computers Study Rooms Group Study Rooms Research Study Rooms Quiet Areas Reserve a Library Space Parks Library spaces Floor & Tier Maps Accessible and Sensory Friendly Spaces Learning Connections Center Bookends Café International Nest Mindfulness Room Where to find ... Room Number Listings Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Diaper changing stations and lactation room Restrooms Library Classroom Use Computers & Technology Assistive Technology Computers and Computer Labs Interactive Displays for Group Work Laptop & Equipment Checkout Group Equipment Loans Outlets and Wireless Printing, Copying, Scanning Other Equipment Parks Libro NVivo Software Access Design Reading Room Veterinary Medicine Library Ask Us! Quick Search Tips Quick Search is the Library's discovery tool. It allows you to find materials the Library owns, subscribes to, or has access to, including the following: Books (both physical and in ebook format) Journals (print and ejournals) Articles Images Audio Visual materials (i.e., media items, such as streaming videos, music CDs, DVDs, etc.) Maps Library databases Library web pages, research guides, etc. You can choose to search Quick Search with its default Simple search or its Advanced Search. Simple Search The Quick Search search box you see on the Library website's home page is the default Simple Search. Just type in your search terms and hit enter or the magnifying glass icon! If you don't find exactly what you need right away, see the Tweak my results column on the right of your search results page. Use relevant filters there to focus your search results further. To limit your search to items the Library owns, choose ISU Collections (Books & more) under the Availability category in Tweak my results. Tweak my results also lets you filter by Format Type (articles, books, newspaper articles, websites, etc.), by Creation Date, Author/Creator, Language, and more. Advanced Search You'll notice that a link to Advanced Search is on the right of Quick Search's default Simple Search box. Advanced Search gives you much more control over your searches. Use the drop-down menus to specify what type of search you want, what type of material you're looking for, what language, and even publication date or range of years. Researchers may wish to enter Advanced Search immediately due to the full range of precise searching available here. (Once you are in Advanced Search, notice the link changes to Simple Search. Thus you can easily toggle back and forth as you like.) Advanced Search lets you search by Title, Author/creator, Subject, or Any field. Looking for your search terms in Any field would be most flexible and a good choice if you're not certain where your search terms might occur in a record. You can specify word order for your search terms, if that is important. You can choose contains, is (exact), or starts with to specify word order. Contains would be the most flexible choice and would find your search terms in any order. Material type includes All items, Books & More (ISU Collections), Articles, Journals, Audio Visual, Images, Maps, and Library databases. Language currently allows you to search for results in Any language, English, Chinese, French, German, Russian, or Spanish. (If you would like to see search results in a different language than these, keep the Language drop-down menu set to Any language, do your search, and then use Tweak my results to see any other languages represented in your specific search results.) Search Tips You can use Boolean operators AND, OR, and NOT in both your Simple searches and in Advanced Search. If you are using Booleans within your search terms, be sure to capitalize them. Example: strawberry OR chocolate You can use nesting techniques (using parentheses to group like terms or concepts together) in both Simple and Advanced Search. Example: (energy OR effort) AND student success Truncation and wildcards: Use ? for single characters, and * for multiple characters. Examples: wom?n will find woman, women, womyn, while woman* will find woman, woman's, womancentric, womanist, womanly, and so on. In Advanced Search, making your search too complex with multiple rows and mixing Boolean operators between rows (e.g., connecting a second row with AND and a third row with OR) may result in errors. It's best to keep your searches relatively straightforward in Advanced Search. Tips for working with Search Results Notice that both Simple search and Advanced Search rely on Tweak my results (found on your search results page) for you to further refine your search results. This means that your search may be a multi-step process, even when using Advanced Search. To find a physical item housed in Parks Library, first do your search and then use Tweak my results and choose Physical items under Availability. To find online items only, do your search and then use Tweak my results to choose Full Text Online under Availability. Note that Full Text Online may be used for non-text materials, such as some streaming videos, audio files, and so on. To find only ebooks on your topic, in Advanced Search choose Books & more (ISU collections) under Material Type, and do your search. Next, use Tweak my results and choose Full Text Online under Availability. You may find items labeled Multiple versions in your search results. These are items with the same title you searched, grouped together. They might be different formats, editions, and so on. Example: search results on Romeo and Juliet might include various books, films, and more. Click on See all versions to view Multiple versions results. To search for a DVD with a specific actor (Keanu Reeves, for example), first choose Audio Visual with the Material Type drop-down menu and type Keanu Reeves in the search box. Note that you may find videos, audio recordings, and other media in your search results. You may need to use Tweak my results for additional focus. For this example, on your search results page, choose Available in the Library or Physical items (both under the Availability category) to find DVDs in our collections that star Keanu Reeves. Off-campus login problems? Quick Search itself does not require login - it's open to all. However, it does lead to subscription indexes and databases, full text articles and other online content that is copyrighted and requires login when you are off-campus. Check the Off-Campus Access page for more information about Okta logins and OpenAthens. See also our Who May Borrow page. All ISU community (current ISU students, staff and faculty) should have full access to our content both on campus and off. For others, check that your status allows off-campus (remote) access to our databases, article indexes, and other online subscription or copyrighted content. For other off-campus problems Ask Us! To supplement Quick Search Article Indexes & Databases links to hundreds of databases, listed by title and by subject categories and subcategories. Quick Search is vast but it does not include all of our article indexes. Researchers especially will want to search relevant subject-focused indexes to ensure comprehensive results. WorldCat covers items owned by ISU and thousands of other libraries. Use the Find a copy in the library feature (found at the bottom of your item's record) to check whether ISU or other nearby library has your item. For items ISU Library does not own, you can also use the ILLiad link (located above Find a copy in the library) and request the item be loaned to you. ILLiad is the name of ISU Library's Interlibrary Loan service. Use Ask Us! to consult ISU librarians for more search tips. University Library University Library 701 Morrill Rd Ames, IA 50011-2102 Ask Us! 515 294-3642 phone Email Webmaster Facebook Twitter Follow us FDLP Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information