Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Menu BC Magazine Nav Search Close About Podcasts Class Notes Past Issues Contact Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close A New World Order? The war in Ukraine. The rise of China. The weakening of democratic norms. We asked BC experts about the future of the liberal world order. By John Wolfson Summer 2022 print mail Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the largest attack in Europe since World War II, has set off waves of speculation about whether the international order that has regulated the planet for three-quarters of a century is beginning to crumble. An ascendent China is challenging America for global primacy. The West’s commitment to democratic norms seems more fragile than at any time in memory. And Russia, long recognized as one of the world’s superpowers, is suddenly looking more like a paper tiger. What does all of this mean for the future of the world order? We asked a number of BC experts, and ahead we present their thoughts on the future of everything from the United States and China to Russia, NATO, and nuclear nonproliferation. On the World after Ukraine By James E. Cronin, research professor in history For three-quarters of a century, the international order has persevered. Now it suddenly finds itself challenged by Russia’s brutal invasion of Ukraine. The order has now suffered a serious rupture that will not be quickly or easily repaired. Read the entire essay. On Russia By Paul T. Christensen, political science professor of the practice Putin and his elite allies who currently rule Russia never believed that the cold war ended, and they never accepted the loss of a significant proportion of “Russia’s” territory, population, and influence that the dissolution of the Soviet Union entailed. Read the entire essay. On China A Q&A with Robert S. Ross, political science professor China is a major international trading partner, a major market for the world. The question is, will it rival the United States as a great power around the world? I think that, beyond East Asia, it’s going to be simply a global presence, not a global power. Read the entire Q&A. On NATO By Seth Jacobs, history professor NATO has become obsolete. Indeed, Washington’s whole Europe-first orientation is anachronistic, a wasteful, expensive holdover from the cold war that ought to have been abandoned years ago and that distracts us from the true dangers we face abroad. Read the entire essay. On Arms Control A Q&A with Jennifer L. Erickson, political science associate professor There’s always the potential for unintended consequences with arm sales, however justified they are. A basic problem for countries that sell weapons is that once you sell them you’ve given up practical control of them. Read the entire Q&A. On the Middle East By Ali Banuazizi, research professor of political science Despite economic hardships and diplomatic pressures, Middle Eastern leaders, while expressing sympathy for the Ukrainian victims of the war, have refrained from condemning Russia’s aggression. Read the entire essay. More Stories Kids and Disasters As catastrophic events become more frequent, BC's Betty Lai is researching how to promote recovery and resilience in children. Guy Beiner The new Sullivan Chair in Irish Studies on how we remember our past, and why it matters. A Gallery-Worthy Gift Peter Lynch ’65 has donated more than $20 million in art from his private collection to the McMullen Museum of Art at BC. Nicholas Burns Is the New Ambassador to China The BC alum tweeted that he’s looking forward to doing “vital work for our country.” Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College