Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Resources right arrow down arrow Student Resources right arrow down arrow Registration right arrow down arrow Online Application for Services Registration FAQ Communication Access Team right arrow down arrow CAT Resources Interpreter/CART/Captioning Request Form Semester Services Request Form Feedback Form Accommodation Form Purpose and Explanation Accessible Technology right arrow down arrow Alternative Format Request Policy and Procedure Alternative Format Request Form Service Animals and Assistance Animals right arrow down arrow Assistance Animal Student Request Form Service Animal and Assistance Animal Policy Housing Accommodation right arrow down arrow Student Housing Accommodation Request Form College-to-Career Partnership Remote Testing Accommodations FAQ COVID-19 Resources for Students Accommodation Form Request Faculty Resources right arrow down arrow Academic Accommodations and Faculty Responsibility COVID-19 Resources for Faculty Policies and Grievance Procedure Electronic Accessibility AR Staff Home » Campus Life » Accessibility Resources Accessibility Resources COVID-19 Resources for Students COVID-19 Resources for Faculty At UC, we are committed every day to providing full and equal access to students, employees and visitors with disabilities. The University is actively engaged in improving the accessibility of our community, in the classroom, in the workplace, on campus, and online. Please use this site to identify the resources you need. Student Resources Registration Communication Access Team - Interpreting, CART, and Captioning Services Alternative Format Request Faculty/Staff Resources Policies and Grievance Procedure Electronic Accessibility Accessibility News We've created a COVID-19 Resources for Students page and COVID-19 Resources for Faculty page. Please visit these pages regularly for updates related to our office, accommodations, and information concerning our office and COVID-19. Location Accessibility Resources is located in Suite 210, on the second floor of University Pavilion. From CCM/CCM Garage, Exit Mary Emory Hall near CCM Starbucks. Cross the bridge heading west to enter University Pavilion on the second floor. Continue around OneStop Student Services towards the dual elevators and enter Suite 210. From Tangeman University Center (TUC). From Main St. travel south in front of the west entrance to TUC and enter the north entrance to University Pavilion, on the second floor. Head to the right, past the stairs leading up to enter Suite 210. From McMicken Hall, Dyer/Teacher's Hall, Enter the west entrance to University Pavilion on the third floor. Head straight ahead then turn right to access the dual elevators, or alternatively take the stairs directly to your left down one floor to the second floor of University Pavilion. From the elevators turn immediately to your left to enter Suite 210; from the main stairs turn right and continue past the dual elevators to enter suite 210. Accessibility Resources University of Cincinnati 210 University Pavilion PO Box 210213 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0213 Tel: (513) 556-6823 Fax: (513) 556-1383 Email: accessresources@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Accessibility Resources University of Cincinnati 210 University Pavilion PO Box 210213 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0213 Tel: (513) 556-6823 Fax: (513) 556-1383 Email: accessresources@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top