Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University OB/GYN Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Leadership Contact Us Education Faculty Community Faculty Residency Program Giving Opportunities Search OB/GYN Obstetrics & Gynecology The Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology is dedicated to improving the lives of the diverse individuals, families, and communities in Southern New England while serving as a role model nationally and internationally. Obstetrics & Gynecology The Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology is dedicated to improving the lives of the diverse individuals, families, and communities in Southern New England while serving as a role model nationally and internationally. The Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology is located at Women & Infants Hospital of Rhode Island and is affiliated with The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Here you will find information on our educational programs, including our Grand Rounds series, residency program, and medical student clerkship in obstetrics and gynecology. Our department consists of both hospital-based full-time faculty, organized by divisions, and community-based faculty physicians in the community. We are also proud of our residency program and the residents. Interested resident applicants will find pertinent information about the program and the application process on our website. We publish our department’s annual report for those interested in knowing more about our work and accomplishments. Quick Links About The Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology is internationally recognized for providing extraordinary patient care, research, and education. Visit Page Open details for About Residency Program Visit Page Open details for Residency Program Women & Infants Hospital Visit Page Open details for Women & Infants Hospital Faculty Department faculty lead and participate in a spectrum of teaching activities for the Undergraduate Medical Education Program. Visit Page Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Leadership Contact Us Education Faculty Community Faculty Residency Program Giving Opportunities Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Obstetrics & Gynecology Open details for Obstetrics & Gynecology Bookmark this Page