Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Summer Hebrew Language Courses Academics Summer Hebrew Language Courses For those who would like to take their Hebrew language skills to the next level, JTS offers a high-quality, intensive Hebrew language program during the summer. Ten-week sessions are offered on three elementary levels; five-week sessions are offered at intermediate and advanced levels. All incoming students take the Hebrew Placement Exam to be placed in the appropriate course. Hebrew Courses are offered during Session II and Session III of JTS’s Summer Sessions. Students in our Nishma program may also take Hebrew. For educators: we also offer two intensive courses for teachers of Hebrew as a second language, as well as Ivriyon, an immersion program for teaches of Judaic subjects. Who It’s For Summer Hebrew courses are for anyone who’s interested in improving their Hebrew language skills. The program is particularly useful for undergraduate and graduate students working toward fulfillment of their Hebrew language requirement, as well as for prospective Rabbinical School and Cantorial School students who are working toward achieving the prerequisite Hebrew language proficiency level for their program. We also offer two intensive courses for teachers of Hebrew as a second language. What It Is The summer Hebrew courses are equivalent to the Hebrew courses offered at JTS during the academic year. The program develops all aspects of Hebrew language proficiency—reading, writing, speaking, and comprehension—including the ability to independently read Hebrew texts of various periods and genres, from biblical to modern. Course materials include textbooks from the Hebrew University in Jerusalem, supplemented with a diverse selection of readings from a variety of Hebrew texts. Courses Elementary Level Alef: Summer Sessions II and III Note: The following courses run through both Sessions II and III (ten weeks). Wednesday, June 1–Thursday, August 4 Enrollment Deadline: Thursday, May 19 HEB 5001: Alef 1 (6 credits) Nina Nesher [TWR 2:00-4:45 p.m. ET on Zoom] The course covers the seven Introductory Units and Lessons 1-8 of Hebrew from Scratch, Vol. 1 (Ivrit min ha-hatḥala alef). It takes the student from learning the mechanics of reading and writing unpointed Hebrew to active mastery of 500 words; knowledge of the present tense and infinitive verb forms; reading and enactment of dialogues relating to everyday life; and reading comprehension of short descriptive, narrative, and informative texts. Additional course materials, daily assignments, and unit tests will be delivered and submitted via Canvas. * Please Note: Enrollment Deadline: May 19 A prerequisite for enrolling is knowledge of the Hebrew alphabet, reading printed text with and without vowels, and writing in script. A mandatory online reading test that assesses these skills should be taken by each student by Friday, May 20, 2022, at 12:00 noon ET. Prerequisite Basic Reading Course May 23-26, 2022: Students who do not pass the reading test must enroll in the online Basic Reading course offered Monday through Thursday, 2:45-4:15 p.m. ET, on Zoom during the week of May 23, 2022. At the end of this course, participants will have to retake the online reading test (deadline for submission May 27, 2022, by 12:00 noon ET). Only students who pass the reading test will be able to participate in HEB 5001. HEB 5101: Alef 2 (6 credits) Naama Weiss [TWR 2:00–4:45 p.m. ET on Zoom] This course, a direct continuation of Alef 1, brings students near the end of the first volume of Hebrew from Scratch A (Ivrit min ha-hatḥala alef) with the same emphasis on reading comprehension, as well as the development of communication skills. Students will continue to expand their vocabulary and learn–-among other basic language forms–-the past tense. Additional readings will be assigned from the folktale anthology Sipur ve-od sipur. HEB 5103: Alef 3 (6 credits) Cila Allon [TWR 2:00–4:45 p.m. ET on Zoom] This course is designed to seamlessly follow Heb 1101 by building on comprehension and oral-aural skills previously acquired, and continue to develop vocabulary and grammar skills (including the future tense of verbs). The two volumes of Hebrew From Scratch (Ivrit min ha-hatḥala) are used as textbooks, supplemented by additional readings from a diversity of sources. Intermediate and Advanced Levels: Summer Session II Wednesday, June 1-Thursday, June 30 Enrollment Deadline: Thursday, May 19 HEB 5201.1: Bet 1 (3 credits) Orna Goldman [MTWR 2:00–4:30 p.m. ET on campus] This course continues with the second volume of Hebrew from Scratch (Ivrit min ha-hatḥala bet). Students will continue to expand their vocabulary and advance their reading, writing, and conversational skills through reading and discussing additional texts of a variety of periods and genres (e.g., adapted stories, poems, selections from parashat hashavua, midrash, and biblical commentary). In grammar, the study of the future tense and major prepositions begun in the previous semester will be concluded, and new topics in syntax and the verb system will be introduced. HEB 5201.2: Bet 1 (3 credits) Ilona Ben-Moshe [MTWR 2:00–4:30 p.m. ET on Zoom] This course continues with the second volume of Hebrew from Scratch (Ivrit min ha-hatḥala bet). Students will continue to expand their vocabulary and advance their reading, writing, and conversational skills through reading and discussing additional texts of a variety of periods and genres (e.g., adapted stories, poems, selections from parashat hashavua, midrash, and biblical commentary). In grammar, the study of the future tense and major prepositions begun in the previous semester will be concluded, and new topics in syntax and the verb system will be introduced. HEB 5204: Gimel (3 credits) Miriam Meir [MTWR 2:00–4:30 p.m. ET on Zoom] A high intermediate-level Hebrew language course aiming to further develop reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills. Particular emphasis is placed on reading comprehension of informative and narrative texts in Hebrew of various periods, classical Hebrew grammar (phonology and the verb system), topics in syntax, vocabulary development, and dictionary usage skills. INTERMEDIATE AND ADVANCED LEVELS: SUMMER SESSION III Tuesday, July 5–Thursday, August 4 Enrollment Deadline: Thursday, June 23 HEB 5203.1: Bet 2 (3 credits) Ilona Ben-Moshe [MTWR 2:00-4:30 p.m. ET on campus] This intermediate-level course will bring students to the end of Hebrew from Scratch II (Ivrit min ha-hatḥala bet), supplementing the textbook with materials from level gimel books and other readings in Hebrew from various periods (e.g., adapted stories, poems, selections from parashat hashavua, midrash, and biblical commentary). Students will learn new grammar topics, develop strategies for reading comprehension and word recognition, and practice conveying ideas and opinions in both speech and writing. HEB 5203.2: Bet 2 (3 credits) Sarah Hochfeld [MTWR 2:00-4:30 p.m. ET on Zoom] This intermediate-level course will bring students to the end of Hebrew from Scratch II (Ivrit min ha-hatchala bet), supplementing the textbook with materials from level gimel books and other readings in Hebrew from various periods (e.g., adapted stories, poems, selections from parashat hashavua, midrash, and biblical commentary). Students will learn new grammar topics, develop strategies for reading comprehension and word recognition, and practice conveying ideas and opinions in both speech and writing. HEB 5300: Advanced Hebrew Skills (3 credits) Miriam Meir [MTWR 2:00–4:30 p.m. ET on Zoom] This advanced-level Hebrew language course aims to further develop Hebrew comprehension, conversation, reading, and writing skills. Readings include Hebrew texts of diverse genres, registers, and periods, including classical texts. Grammatical topics include a systematic integrated study of the binyanim system including all weak verbs, and a variety of advanced topics in syntax. Sarah Hochfeld and Ilona Ben-Moshe EDU 5242: Ivriyon (6 credits) [MTWR 11:00 a.m–4:30 p.m. ET on Zoom] An intensive Hebrew immersion program for Jewish educators, Ivriyon prepares current and future teachers of Judaic subjects to teach their classes in Hebrew and to support their students’ success in an Ivrit be-Ivrit environment. The program combines intensive teaching practice and guest talks by experts in language pedagogy with full language immersion, with the goal of growing students’ expressive skills and confidence speaking and teaching in Hebrew. By enrolling in the course, students commit to speaking exclusively Hebrew in all classes. Please email hebrew@jtsa.edu to request application materials. Application deadline is May 10, 2022. INTENSIVE COURSES FOR TEACHERS OF HEBREW AS A SECOND LANGUAGE Hilla Kobliner EDU 5240: Teaching Hebrew as a Second Language: Infinite Ways to Crack a Text (3 credits) [July 11, 12, 13, 14, 18 ,19, 20, and 21 8:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. ET on Zoom] This course develops pedagogical skills for teaching Hebrew as a second language, with a focus on teaching reading comprehension. The course will attend to different genres of texts, developing strategies of understanding different texts, cultivating various thinking skills and creativity along with oral and written expression, as well as planning an instructional unit, assessing outcomes, building linguistic awareness, and acquiring cultural knowledge and independence in learning. Taught in Hebrew. Hebrew fluency is required. Application deadline is May 10, 2022. Interested students should email their CV and include Hebrew language teaching experience and a short statement of interest, written in Hebrew, to hebrew@jtsa.edu. Hilla Kobliner EDU: 5241: Teaching Hebrew as a Second Language: Grammar as a Means to an End (3 credits) [June 26, 27, 28, 29, and 30, and July 5, 6, and 7 8:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. ET on Zoom] This course develops pedagogical skills for teaching Hebrew as a second language, with a focus on teaching grammar. We will examine the roles of grammatical knowledge in the development of learners’ comprehension and production skills in the various stages of language acquisition. We will develop in detail the linguistic insights we want our students to develop in syntax, morphology, and semantics, and then learn to design instructional units for various ages and levels with attention to the acquisition process of grammatical skills and linguistics awareness. A variety of exercises and activities will be presented, created, and assessed in terms of their contribution to learners’ progress and learning experience. Taught in Hebrew. Hebrew fluency is required. Application deadline is May 10, 2022. Interested students should email their CV and include Hebrew-language teaching experience and a short statement of interest, written in Hebrew, to hebrew@jtsa.edu. Non-Credit Learning The Summer Learners program offers access to our summer intensive Hebrew courses. Through the JTS Summer Learners program, you can enroll in any Hebrew courses on a non-credit basis. Students enrolled through the Summer Learners program must meet all the course requirements (attendance, assignments, quizzes, etc.). For Summer Learners students, the cost is: $612 for a 3-credit course and $1,224 for a 6-credit course. Registration and Fees For JTS Students Current JTS students may register online by going to MyJTS. The application fee must be submitted in full before your application form can be processed. For All Other Students Contact hebrew@jtsa.edu to take the Hebrew Placement Exam. Complete the Application Form for Non-JTS Students and make your payment. If you intend to take the course for academic credit, submit an official copy of a transcript indicating either a degree and the year earned or your current educational status. The application fee must be submitted in full before your application form can be processed. Tuition Charges Type of Course Student Categories Per Course 6-credit Hebrew course All JTS Students $5,628 6-credit Hebrew course Non-JTS Students $5,904 3-credit Hebrew course All JTS and non-JTS Students $4,422 3-credit course for Audit Summer Learners $612 6-credit course for Audit Summer Learners $1,224 Registration Fees Registration Fee $50 per session Student Activities Fee $35 per session Application Fee (Non-JTS Students only) $60 Rates are subject to change. Contact Us For more information and any questions about the summer Hebrew program, please contact us at hebrew@jtsa.edu. SHARE THIS PAGE TAKE YOUR JEWISH TEXT SKILLS TO THE NEXT LEVEL WITH NISHMA: SUMMER IN THE JTS BEIT MIDRASH LEARN MORE RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message