Skip to main content Baylor Business - Hankamer School of Business Baylor University About HSB Student Resources Giving Contact Undergraduate #BU26 Graduate MBA Programs Army-Baylor Programs Master of Business Analytics Master of Information Systems Master of Economics Master of Accountancy Master of Taxation Doctorate in Entrepreneurship Doctorate in Health Services Research Doctorate in Information Systems Areas of Study Accounting & Business Law Baylor Business Fellows Economics Entrepreneurship & Corporate Innovation Finance, Insurance & Real Estate Information Systems & Business Analytics Marketing Management Centers & Institutes Entrepreneurship Family Business Financial Markets Health Policy & Leadership International Business Nonprofit Leadership Professional Selling Real Estate Sales & Marketing Sports Strategy and Sales Technology Center Ethics Career Center Alumni Center for Sports Strategy and Sales Your Ticket to a Career in Sports Watch Video Full Story Win with us. Work ethic. Integrity. Networking. Watch Video Full Story Prepare with the pros Watch Video Full Story Get on the bus. We will help you find the right seat for your ride to the pros. Watch Video Full Story Get to know us. Learn from S3 alumni at every S3 Club meeting. Watch Video Full Story The Center for Sports Strategy and Sales program offers fulfilling careers you can be passionate about! "S3 has an incredible sports and sales curriculum, which is only enhanced by outstanding educators and students of the highest character. " Joe Schiavi Vice President of Ticket Sales & Service, Detroit Tigers "One reason I value candidates from Baylor University is I know these students have direct experience assigning leads to reps through CRM, making customizations in the CRM and analyzing data." Chris Zeppenfeld Vice President, Business Intelligence, Charlotte Hornets "The Baylor S3 degree has been invaluable to my career. To graduate with experience selling tickets and packaging real-life partnerships gave me an instant leg up in the sports world. The relationships I developed with teams across the country while still in school gave me an instant network. Receiving all of these benefits in a value-based, Christian environment is an advantage you can’t put a value on." Brian George Senior Director of Suite Sales, Houston Texans "I went to a different university for undergraduate and I wish we had something like the S3 program. The Baylor students are at such an advantage to not only network with teams, but have the ability to see opportunities that are open before anyone else. " Courtney Miller Senior Account Executive, Corporate Partnerships, Dallas Cowboys "Year after year, as I travel to dozens of pro sports organizations, Baylor's S3 program cranks out some of the most qualified, high-quality professional job candidates in all of sports. It's about quality, not quantity at Baylor, and the program's track record of success in the industry is nothing short of amazing." German Montero Manager, New Business-Teams,The Madison Square Garden News News Feed Audio: Business Review: Getting to the Bottom of the Bottom-Line Mentality AICPA Recognizes 2021 Top CPA Exam Performers with Elijah Watt Sells Award Audio: Business Review: Making an About-Face in Business Edgy Ad Campaign for Christian TV Series Gets Mixed Reviews View All News Events View Full Calendar Search Site Map Reserve Your Seat in S3 Join the S3 Club S3 Tracks & Courses S3 Profiles (LinkedIn List) S3 Placement S3 Club & Events S3 Vision & Values National Collegiate Sports Sales and Analytics Championship S3 Recruiting S3 Sports Marketing Research Scholarships for S3 S3 Global Programs Giving to S3 Stay Connected Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Podcast YouTube RSS Feed Baylor Business Links About HSB Advisory Board Baylor Business Brand Events Maps & Directions News Find Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Podcast RSS Feed Resources and Tools Canvas Digital Measures Directory Faculty/Staff Resources HSB Policies Student Resources Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University Waco, Texas 76798 1-800-BAYLOR-U