Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events School of Public Health Office of Communications Home Who We Are Resources Our Services Our Work Site Navigation Home Who We Are Resources Visual Identity Stationery Suite and Email Signature PowerPoint & Posters Colors Internal Mailing Lists Social Media Directory Video Bumpers Zoom backgrounds Commencement zoom backgrounds Our Services Our Work Who We Are Stefanie Friedhoff Senior Director of Content, Strategy and Public Affairs [email protected] Stefanie oversees the Dean’s ongoing special projects and pandemics portfolio, including research collaborations, congressional efforts, and crisis communications. She also oversees the expansion of the Schools’ communication and engagement efforts, and serves as a strategic advisor on thought leadership and innovation to the Dean. Caroline Claflin Assistant Director of Multimedia Content Production [email protected] Caroline strategizes and develops creative material for print and web. She works closely with the Dean’s office to oversee multimedia output for special projects and ongoing collaborations. Andrew Iliff Dean’s Senior Writer [email protected] Andrew collaborates closely with the Dean and the School’s Office of Communications to publish strategic policy and opinion pieces on topics ranging from COVID-19 to climate change. Destry Jensen Communications Scholar [email protected] Destry is the Communications Scholar for the School of Public Health. In this endowed scholarship, her role is to assist the School with content development for Instagram and the weekly ASPPH newsletter. Laura Kallio Joyce P’22 Communications Specialist [email protected] 401-863-3031 Laura oversees the school’s social media channels, curates our monthly e-newsletter, schedules and distributes Panopto lecture captures, and is an editor of Continuum Magazine. Megan Lackie Communication and Events Specialist to the Dean [email protected] Karen Scanlan Director of Dean's Events and Communications [email protected] 401-863-5776 Karen oversees all events and communications in the Office of the Dean. Ken Zirkel Web Production and Content Specialist [email protected] Ken supports School of Public Health website content for both the main school website and its departments and centers. He also performs web training and updates; does event photography and headshots; and manages the digital sign in the lobby of 121 South Main Street. School of Public Health Communications School of Public Health Communications Brown University 121 South Main Street Third Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3375 Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top