Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Payroll & Tax Services Menu Search TTU Payroll Services welcome to Payroll & Tax Services providing and continually improving services in support of the Texas Tech mission Forms FAQs Announcements Insurance Benefits Departments Reminder that an ENJOB ePAF does not terminate employment or insurance benefits. If an employee is not expected to return to work, a TERMI (termination) ePAF should be submitted. If an ENJOB ePAF is submitted in error, and the insurance remains active for the employee, departments are solely responsible for ALL insurance premiums due (both employee and employer portions), for all months insurance coverages remain active. Employees Employees enrolled in insurance who are not working in the summer, as well as 9 month employees who did not have summer premiums pre-deducted, will be billed for "out of pocket" premiums due. If premiums are not paid by the due date: For full-time employees: All dependents will be dropped from health coverage and all optional coverages will be canceled For part-time employees: Health coverage and all optional coverages will be canceled Employees can only re-enroll in cancelled coverages during open enrollment unless a qualifying life event has occurred. If you have any questions, please email webmaster.payroll@ttu.edu. TTU 9 Month Faculty Members Enrolled in Insurance An email notification went out on March 4th regarding insurance premiums for the summer months of June, July, and August. If your primary salary is paid over 9 months, your “out of pocket” premiums will be pre-deducted from your April 1st, May 2nd, and June 1st paychecks to ensure there is no lapse in coverage during the summer. These are automated deductions; therefore, no action is needed by you. If you have any questions, please send an email to webmaster.payroll@ttu.edu. Form W-2 and 1095-C Information In preparation for the end of the calendar year and issuance of the Forms W-2 and 1095-C, Payroll & Tax Services highly recommends that all employees review and/or update their Permanent Address. The deadline for address updates for Forms W-2 and 1095-C is December 17, 2021. Employees can consent to receive both their Forms W-2 and 1095-C electronically. All W-2 and 1095-C forms for 2021 for employees without electronic consent will be mailed to the employee's permanent address on file. Terminated employees should contact their HR office to make changes to their permanent address if they are unable to access Raiderlink/WebRaider. To review your address, please use the following navigation: Log into the Raiderlink/WebRaider portal Select the Employee tab Select Employee Dashboard Select My Profile (Located below employee name) Select edit icon to the right of Permanent Address To update your address, please use the following navigation: Select Current under the Permanent heading Update the information Use Today's date in the "Valid From This Date" field Do not enter any date in the Until This Date field Click Submit To electronically consent to receive your Forms W-2 and 1095-C electronically, please use the following navigation: Log into the Raiderlink/WebRaider portal Select the Payroll & Tax tab Select Electronic Regulatory Consent from Annual Tax Information section Check Consent to receive Form W-2 electronically Check Consent to receive Form 1095-C electronically Click on Submit You will notice a confirmation at the top of your screen verifying that Electronic Consent was submitted successfully. You will receive an email notification once the Forms W-2 and 1095-C are available to be accessed for the year. If you consent to receive your Form W-2 electronically, you will not receive a paper copy. The deadline to update your electronic consent is December 17, 2021. For more information or questions, please contact webmaster.payroll@ttu.edu. i2Verify As of April 1, 2021, Texas Tech University will have a new service to execute employment and wage verification requests of current and former employees. These requests are directed to i2Verify, an income and employment verification company which provides immediate access to employment and wage data. i2Verify automates the verification process by instantly and securely delivering employment information requestors, such as banks or government agencies, rely on to make credit granting or benefit entitlement decisions (mortgages, loans, etc.). Clients of i2Verify include lenders, property managers, pre-employment screeners, and social service agencies. Utilizing i2Verify for employment and wage verification will benefit Texas Tech University employees and departments in multiple ways. By eliminating the need for internal verifications, i2Verify reduces the turnaround time associated with employment or wage verification. A properly credentialed verifier, such as a bank or mortgage company, can now securely access employment verification data at any time at www.i2Verify.com. Through the i2Verify employee portal, employees are allowed complete visibility into the verification process. Employees can block access to their data, generate their own reports, or choose to be notified when someone views their data. i2Verify's employment verification process is secure. Not only does i2Verify validate the identity of all users of its system prior to allowing access to sensitive employee data, but a complete audit trail of every verification is created and then is made available to employees. Support is available by calling i2Verify at 1-888-458-6319. Please go here to create a personal account. For instructions on how to create an i2Verify Employee Account, go here. For the i2Verify user guide, go here COVID-19 Related EOPS Payments To aid in tracking any special payments related to COVID-19, please use the following information when completing Employee Special One-Time Payments, EOPS, for payment to employees. COVID-19 should be the first line in the Detailed Explanation of Payment section. Include as much information as possible in the Detailed Explanation of Payment section. Any LSP payments to nonexempt staff should include a worksheet of hours worked and an overtime calculation, as appropriate. EOPS deadlines can be found here. Working remotely limits the ability to pull EOPS payments from the regular on-cycle payroll process. Please ensure the EOPS is completed correctly and submitted timely to ensure processing on the appropriate payroll cycle. Pay Schedule View Pay Schedule Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Payroll & Tax Services Address Box 41092, Lubbock, TX 79409-1092 Phone 806.742.3211 Email webmaster.payroll@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 3, 2022 10:22 AM Payroll & Tax Services About Payroll & Tax Services About Back Our Mission Staff Directory Organization Chart Newsletters Contact Us Payroll Areas Payroll & Tax Services Payroll Areas Back Benefits & Deductions Payroll Processing Reporting & Compliance Tax Compliance Time & Leave TimeClock Plus Resources Payroll & Tax Services Resources Back Forms FAQs Quick Links Employee Resources Manager Resources End User Calendar A&F Areas Payroll & Tax Services A&F Areas Back Auxiliary Services Payroll & Tax Services A&F Areas Auxiliary Services Back Hospitality Services United Supermarkets Arena University Student Housing Student Union and Activities Recreational Sports TTU Campus Store Student Health Services Business Services Payroll & Tax Services A&F Areas Business Services Back Accounting Services Budget & Resource Planning & Management Cash and Credit Management Services Data Management for Financial Resources (DMFR) Payroll & Tax Services Procurement Services Student Business Services Operations Payroll & Tax Services A&F Areas Operations Back Operations Planning and Administration Grounds Maintenance Business Services Building Maintenance & Construction Utilities Services Engineering Transportation & Parking Services Safety and Security Payroll & Tax Services A&F Areas Safety and Security Back Police Department Fire Marshal Emergency Management Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index