Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Department of Behavioral and Social Sciences Home About Degree Programs Research People News Resources Site Navigation Home About i-BSHS Seminar Series Innovations Award BSS Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Degree Programs Doctoral Program Master’s Program Research Alcohol use & misuse Chronic disease prevention and management Drug use and misuse Global Health HIV, sexually transmitted infections, and reproductive health Health disparities and health equity Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender health Mindfulness Obesity, nutrition, and physical activity Smoking and tobacco use People Leadership & Administration Faculty Current Doctoral Students BSHS Alumni News Resources For Faculty For Current Doctoral Students News BSHS student is top read article in AIDS Patient Care Dec 13, 2021 Congratulations to BSHS student William Lodge II, whose paper was named a high-impact, top-read article in AIDS Patient Care and STDs. Read More HIV & COVID-19 Webinar Series Jul 2, 2021 The University of the Philippines Manila, in collaboration with Brown University, through the NIH-Fogarty Training Program for the Prevention of HIV in Vulnerable Populations, invites you to attend its five-part webinar series on HIV and COVID-19 this July-August 2021. Read More BSHS Dissertation Defense | Kira Rose DiClemente, MPH Apr 28, 2021 The Department of Behavioral and Social Sciences is pleased to announce the dissertation defense of Kira DiClemente on May 20, 2021 at 1:00 p.m. EST. "Mental health experiences of women exposed to war and violence in Africa: a community-based approach" Read More Healthline: Diana Grigsby-Toussaint, Ph.D., MPH Apr 28, 2021 Associate Professor of the Department of Behavioral and Social Sciences, Diana Grigsby-Toussaint, Ph.D., MPH, comments on how racist practices such as redlining have made it more likely that communities of color live in areas with less green space and more air pollution, which may lead to more health risks. Read the article: "How Climate Change Disproportionately Affects People of Color" Read More Congrats BSS Faculty: Dean's Awards for Faculty Excellence Apr 27, 2021 Announcing the 2021 Dean's Awards for Faculty Excellence Each year the School of Public Health honors exceptional faculty members with Dean's Awards for their service to the School and to the field of public health. Congratulations to the winners of the 2021 Dean's Awards for Excellence! The Department of Behavioral and Social Health Sciences is very proud to share that five faculty members were awarded for their excellence: Read More Ashley Gomez, Ph.D. candidate, shares her research in the Boston Globe Feb 22, 2021 "The Boston Globe’s weekly Ocean State Innovators column features a Q&A with Rhode Island innovators who are starting new businesses and nonprofits, conducting groundbreaking research, and reshaping the state’s economy. Send tips and suggestions to reporter Alexa Gagosz at [email protected]. Read More NeuroImage Article by Tara White, Ph.D. Nov 6, 2020 Groundbreaking new paper on brain compounds signaling emotional wellness in healthy people published in NeuroImage by BSS faculty member Tara White, Ph.D. and her team at Brown. This paper was also co-authored by BSHS Sc.M. graduate, Meghan Gonsalves. See press release at the Carney Institute for Brain Science: https://www.brown.edu/carney/news/2020/11/06/study-delves-emotional-wellness-human-brain Read More Society for Behavioral Medicine: Akilah Dulin, Ph.D. Oct 23, 2020 Akilah Dulin, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences writes about policy work as Chair of the Society for Behavioral Medicine Health Policy Committee Read More RI and COVID-19, Tracing the Pandemic: Diana Grigsby-Toussaint, Ph.D. Oct 23, 2020 Dr. Diana Grigsby-Toussaint has collaborated with colleagues from the School of Public Health, Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) and the Population Studies and Training Center to co-author a new report on COVID-19 in Rhode Island. The report, Rhode Island and COVID-19: Tracing the Pandemic was led by Kevin Mwenda from S4 and aims to provide insight to public health officials involved in the continued response to the pandemic. Read More Congrats to Holly Boyle! Oct 22, 2020 Congratulations to Holly Boyle who received an F31 Fellowship from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism for her research on "Examining person and event level predictors of simultaneous alcohol and marijuana use via mixed methods"! Read More Pages 1 2 3 4 5 next › last » Department of Behavioral and Social Sciences Department of Behavioral and Social Sciences Brown University Box G-S121-4 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6578 Fax: 401-863-6697 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top