Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Alumni Connect Menu About Alumni Board of Advocates Alumni Update Form Baylor Alumni Spotlight Contact Us Discounts & Benefits Staff Directory Events 50th Reunion and Golden Grad Diploma Ceremony Alumni Day of Service Day of Service - Chicago Baylor Black Alumni Alliance Reunion Weekend Baylor Night Atlanta Braves vs. Los Angeles Angels Austin FC vs. Pachuca Colorado Rockies vs. San Francisco Giants Los Angeles Angels vs. Texas Rangers Seattle Mariners vs. Houston Astros Texas Rangers vs. Washington Nationals Washington Nationals vs. Atlanta Braves Baylor Professionals of Austin present Dr. Dennis O'Neal Baylor Professionals of Dallas present Dr. Dennis O'Neal Baylor Professionals of Houston present Dr. Dennis O'Neal Central Texas Baylor Club Scholarship Dinner, featuring Baylor Women's Basketball Head Coach Nicki Collen Olive Oil & Vinegar Tasting and Cooking Demonstration Spring Luncheon, Hosted by Baylor University Women's Council Tarrant County Texas Tour featuring Baylor Football Houston, TX Dallas/Fort Worth, TX San Antonio, TX Virtual Rosary Recitation Get Involved Groups Affinity Groups Regional Groups Regional Groups Bear Pack Travel Alaska: July 8-15, 2022 New Orleans: Sept. 15-18, 2022 Greece: Sept. 28-Oct. 8, 2022 Alabama: Nov. 5-9, 2022 Danube River: Dec. 2-10, 2022 Tuscany: March 15-23, 2023 France: May 25-31, 2023 Traditions Alumni By Choice Heritage Club Next Generation Bears Official Baylor Ring BeaRing the Night Baylor Ring Ceremony Ring Eligibility Requirements Ring Scholarship Ring Week Frequently Asked Questions Senior Class Gift Senior Trip to Independence Singspiration Awards 2022 Award Winners Alumna of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Medal of Service for Contributions to the Professions Alumna by Choice of the Year 2021 Award Winners Alumnus of the Year Young Alumna of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions in Media & Arts Founders Medal Alumna by Choice of the Year 2020 Award Winners Alumna of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Founders Medal 2018-19 Award Winner 2017 Award Winners Baylor Alumni of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Distinguished Achievement Award Medal of Service for Contributions to Medicine Medal of Service for Contributions to Christian Ministry W.R. White Meritorious Achievement Award Baylor Legacy Award Founders Medal 2016 Award Winners Alumnus of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Distinguished Achievement Award Medal of Service for Contributions to Research Medal of Service for Contributions to Christian Ministry Medal of Service for Business Leadership W.R. White Meritorious Service Award Baylor Legacy Award Founders Medal 2015 Award Winners Baylor Alumni of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions: Healthcare & Medicine Contributions to the Professions: Research Founders Medal Baylor Legendary Mentor Baylor Legacy Award 2014 Award Winners Baylor Alumni of the Year Young Alumna of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions: Healthcare Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions: Media & Arts Distinguished Achievement Award Founders Medal W. R. White Meritorious Service Award Baylor Legendary Mentors Baylor Legacy Award 2013 Award Winners Baylor Alumnus of the Year Young Alumna of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Business Leadership Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions: Healthcare Medal of Service Baylor Legacy Award Founders Medal Distinguished Achievement Award 2012 Award Winners Baylor Alumnus of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Texana Medal of Service Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Medal of Service for Business and Commerce Medal of Service for Business Leadership Medal of Service for Contributions to the Professions Medal of Service and Baylor Legendary Mentor Baylor Legacy Award Founders Medal 2011 Award Winners 2011 Alumnus of the Year 2011 Baylor Young Alumnus of the Year 2011 Baylor Legacy Award 2011 Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service 2011 Pro Texana Medal of Service 2011 Medal of Service in Business Leadership 2011 Medal of Service in Media Arts 2011 Baylor Founders Medal 2010 Award Winners 2010 Baylor Alumnus of the Year 2010 Baylor Young Alumna of the Year 2010 Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service 2010 Pro Texana Medal of Service 2010 Baylor Legacy Award 2010 Founders Medal Make a Gift Welcome to the online home for all Baylor alumni, from recent graduates to longtime alums and their families! As a bold and proud Baylor alum, you play a vital role in keeping Baylor strong and growing in its mission of education and service through leadership. A growing number of programs and services for alumni across the nation and around the world are available for your involvement. Explore BAYLOR NIGHT From Nashville to Seattle, Brooklyn, and Washington, D.C., unite with Baylor Bears at a sporting event near you and cheer on your home team! Find Your City Spirit Boxes for NextGen Baylor Bears! The NextGen Bears program is offering parents, grandparents, family and friends the opportunity to purchase a spirit box filled to the brim with an exclusive collection of Baylor gear specially curated for ages 0-13+! Order Yours Today! Texas Tour Featuring Baylor Football Throughout the summer, Baylor Alumni will host events across Texas to provide alumni and fans an opportunity to hear about Baylor football's upcoming season. Baylor Football Head Coach Dave Aranda will share how he and his staff are building a culture of excellence that includes a commitment to the physical, social, and spiritual development of players and what fans can expect to see on the field this fall. Learn More A Milestone We All Can Celebrate Gifts and pledges to the Give Light Campaign have surpassed the initial goal of $1.1 billion, marking the campaign as the largest and most successful fundraising effort in the University's 177-year history. Read More 2022 Baylor Alumni Awards Baylor University announced the recipients of the 2022 Baylor Alumni Awards, which honor individuals who embody the distinctive mission of the University and their remarkable achievements. A celebration honoring the impact of alumni around the world and recognizing this year's recipients will be held on campus on Feb. 18, 2022. Read More Baylor Magazine Winter 2022 The winter 2022 edition of the magazine features a Q&A with President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D, about Baylor's Christian Commitment. Read More Baylor University Celebrates First Cohort of Trailblazer Scholars The Trailblazer Scholars Program is a scholarship program designed to recognize the importance of fostering diversity and mutual respect at Baylor University. The program emerged as part of Baylor's commitment to listen, learn and take actionable steps regarding racial healing and justice in America. The inaugural Gilbert-Walker cohort of Trailblazer Scholars is named after Baylor's first Black graduates Rev. Robert Gilbert, BA '67, and Mrs. Barbara Walker, BA '67. Read More Meet Your Alumni Board of Advocates A volunteer-based Baylor Alumni Board of Advocates works closely with the Baylor Alumni staff to foster lifelong relationships with present and future alumni. Board members welcome input and ideas from fellow Baylor Bears, serve as valuable resources for programmatic support and offer an important voice for alumni. Meet the Board Connect with Groups Are you interested in connecting with other Baylor alumni, parents and friends who understand what it means to bleed green and gold? Explore the many opportunities that exist for meaningful engagement and connection to fellow Baylor Bears. Regional Locate a regional group near you to engage with alumni in your area. Each group offers plenty of ways to get involved, including social events, networking opportunities and more. Explore Regional Groups Affinity Alumni have many things in common, often sharing particular affinities through personal interests, activities or situations in life. Baylor Alumni fosters the growth of such affinity groups around the world. Explore Affinity Groups Academic / Professional Want to connect with other alumni in your profession or from your academic field? Several groups provide professional development opportunities along with fun social components. Explore Academic / Professional Groups Start Something New Wherever you work, live or play, we can help you begin a new group to help celebrate and nurture the common bonds between alumni and your love for Baylor. Start Something New Events See More Events Jun 9 2022 Spring Luncheon, Hosted by Baylor University Women's Council Tarrant County Jun 14 2022 Baylor Alumni Catholic Group Virtual Rosary Jun 23 2022 Army-Baylor Orals Board Reception Jul 12 2022 Baylor Alumni Catholic Group Virtual Rosary Aug 27 2022 Baylor Black Alumni Student Career Planning/Placement Seminar (with MCA and Career Center) Baylor Alumni Spotlight See More Enimini Ekong BA '07 "Part of what I love about my job is that I get to challenge people's hearts around race and culture, with hopes that I can create a haven for hard conversations that are transformational." Sam Han BA '11 "My time at Baylor is where I really found my roots. In Matthew 28 when Christ sends out his apostles to go and make disciples of all nations, I really do think that that's our calling no matter what field we are in." Orhue Odaro B.S. '11 "A lot of spiritual growth happened while I was at Baylor. Being able to have something outside of myself to serve as a lens through which to view the world has helped me personally in terms of being a Christian and having a relationship with God." Kevin Pranoto MDiv, MSW '16 "As a person of color in this field, I feel like I've had to overcome a lot of obstacles. In nonprofit leadership, you see a lot of people of color working in non-profits, but you don't really see many of them in leadership positions or serving on boards." Traditions As the oldest continuously operating university in Texas, Baylor has a wealth of time-honored traditions. We invite you to take part in a diversity of programs through which Baylor Bears from all walks of life can come together to celebrate our Baylor spirit. Explore Alumni Traditions Baylor Ring Symbolizing a remarkable achievement in the life of Baylor students, the Official Baylor Ring is a tangible symbol of our University’s rich heritage. Alumni by Choice This unique program welcomes non-alumni as valued members of the Baylor Family. Clifton Robinson Tower 700 S. University Parks Dr. Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-8300 BaylorAlumni@baylor.edu AwardsBaylor MagazineEventsGroupsMake a GiftTraditions Give Light is a $1.1 billion comprehensive campaign for the future of Baylor University. The campaign undergirds Illuminate, the University's Academic Strategic Plan, and will impact every aspect of campus life, from academics and athletics to student life and global engagement. Learn More about Give Light General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Alumni Board of Advocates Alumni Update Form Baylor Alumni Spotlight Contact Us Discounts & Benefits Staff Directory Events 50th Reunion and Golden Grad Diploma Ceremony Alumni Day of Service Day of Service - Chicago Baylor Black Alumni Alliance Reunion Weekend Baylor Night Atlanta Braves vs. Los Angeles Angels Austin FC vs. Pachuca Colorado Rockies vs. San Francisco Giants Los Angeles Angels vs. Texas Rangers Seattle Mariners vs. Houston Astros Texas Rangers vs. Washington Nationals Washington Nationals vs. Atlanta Braves Baylor Professionals of Austin present Dr. Dennis O'Neal Baylor Professionals of Dallas present Dr. Dennis O'Neal Baylor Professionals of Houston present Dr. Dennis O'Neal Central Texas Baylor Club Scholarship Dinner, featuring Baylor Women's Basketball Head Coach Nicki Collen Olive Oil & Vinegar Tasting and Cooking Demonstration Spring Luncheon, Hosted by Baylor University Women's Council Tarrant County Texas Tour featuring Baylor Football Houston, TX Dallas/Fort Worth, TX San Antonio, TX Virtual Rosary Recitation Get Involved Groups Affinity Groups Regional Groups Regional Groups Bear Pack Travel Alaska: July 8-15, 2022 New Orleans: Sept. 15-18, 2022 Greece: Sept. 28-Oct. 8, 2022 Alabama: Nov. 5-9, 2022 Danube River: Dec. 2-10, 2022 Tuscany: March 15-23, 2023 France: May 25-31, 2023 Traditions Alumni By Choice Heritage Club Next Generation Bears Official Baylor Ring BeaRing the Night Baylor Ring Ceremony Ring Eligibility Requirements Ring Scholarship Ring Week Frequently Asked Questions Senior Class Gift Senior Trip to Independence Singspiration Awards 2022 Award Winners Alumna of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Medal of Service for Contributions to the Professions Alumna by Choice of the Year 2021 Award Winners Alumnus of the Year Young Alumna of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions in Media & Arts Founders Medal Alumna by Choice of the Year 2020 Award Winners Alumna of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Founders Medal 2018-19 Award Winner 2017 Award Winners Baylor Alumni of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Distinguished Achievement Award Medal of Service for Contributions to Medicine Medal of Service for Contributions to Christian Ministry W.R. White Meritorious Achievement Award Baylor Legacy Award Founders Medal 2016 Award Winners Alumnus of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Distinguished Achievement Award Medal of Service for Contributions to Research Medal of Service for Contributions to Christian Ministry Medal of Service for Business Leadership W.R. White Meritorious Service Award Baylor Legacy Award Founders Medal 2015 Award Winners Baylor Alumni of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions: Healthcare & Medicine Contributions to the Professions: Research Founders Medal Baylor Legendary Mentor Baylor Legacy Award 2014 Award Winners Baylor Alumni of the Year Young Alumna of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions: Healthcare Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions: Media & Arts Distinguished Achievement Award Founders Medal W. R. White Meritorious Service Award Baylor Legendary Mentors Baylor Legacy Award 2013 Award Winners Baylor Alumnus of the Year Young Alumna of the Year Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Pro Texana Medal of Service Business Leadership Medal of Service Contributions to the Professions: Healthcare Medal of Service Baylor Legacy Award Founders Medal Distinguished Achievement Award 2012 Award Winners Baylor Alumnus of the Year Young Alumnus of the Year Pro Texana Medal of Service Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Medal of Service for Business and Commerce Medal of Service for Business Leadership Medal of Service for Contributions to the Professions Medal of Service and Baylor Legendary Mentor Baylor Legacy Award Founders Medal 2011 Award Winners 2011 Alumnus of the Year 2011 Baylor Young Alumnus of the Year 2011 Baylor Legacy Award 2011 Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service 2011 Pro Texana Medal of Service 2011 Medal of Service in Business Leadership 2011 Medal of Service in Media Arts 2011 Baylor Founders Medal 2010 Award Winners 2010 Baylor Alumnus of the Year 2010 Baylor Young Alumna of the Year 2010 Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service 2010 Pro Texana Medal of Service 2010 Baylor Legacy Award 2010 Founders Medal Make a Gift