Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Contact Us Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics Harvard Astronomy Department Search About History HCO Staff Directory Contact Us Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging Research Groups Services Financial Operations Corporate Card Equipment Procurement (Buy2Pay) Payment Requests Purchasing Card SAO Rebill Travel Vendor Setup Human Resources Research Appointments Getting Started at HCO Research Administration Pre-Award Post-Award Facilities Building Access EH&S The Great Refractor Parking & Biking Wolbach Library Resources FAQ Forms HCO Notes News & Events Updated 03/17/2022 On-Campus Guidance Please see link below COVID-19 CAMPUS RESOURCES Available on the Harvard University COVID-19 Website Keep Harvard Healthy University-wide COVID-19 Information Updates & Community Messages from Harvard University SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs Guidance for the FAS Division of Science and SEAS Communities around Coronavirus (COVID-19) University-wide: Coronavirus information SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs Harvard HR: Coronavirus Workplace Policies Harvard HR: Return to Campus Harvard HR Resources: Mental and Emotional Wellbeing During the COVID-19 Pandemic Anyone Harvard Community Member (Students, Faculty, Staff, Researchers, and Embedded Vendors) must be part of the COVID testing group in order to have any on-campus presence (even if less than four hours) New employees are not automatically approved for on-campus access/enrolled in testing: they will need to be manually approved. Instructions can be found on the "HCO: Return to Campus...." information sheet. Test kits are currently being distributed to the individual offices of Harvard employees by Charlie Hickey and his team. If you are not on this delivery list and would like to be added, please reach out to Charlie Hickey - be sure to include your office number when making this request. Kits that are intended for SAO employees should not be taken/used by Harvard employees. If you are ever need a kit right away or during off business hours, anyone with approved testing eligiblity can pick up a test from Northwest Labs via the Oxford Street entrance near security. Or at one of the other designated locations. Harvard Administrative News - Current Issue Wellbeing at Harvard has events for Faculty & Staff that range from Mind & Body to Learning & Growing to Living & Working to Finances & Security To view our full calendar of upcoming events, please visit our News & Events page. Please check out our newest page for Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging. Welcome to a number of new employees here at the HCO: Anna Nolin joined us on February 7 as Alyssa Goodman's Administrative Coordinator Purvang Patel joined us on February 14 as the HCO Executive Director T.J. Martin joined us on February 14 as the ITC Division Administrator For website updates please contact Theresa Ross Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement