Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Literary Arts Program Literary Arts Prizes Literary Arts Prizes Literary Arts is pleased to offer the following prizes. Entry for these prizes takes place annually in the spring semester. The 2022 prize deadline is 11:59 pm 16 March. We'll announce the winners by mid-April Academy of American Poets Prize For the best poem (up to 10 pages) by an undergraduate or graduate student currently enrolled in the University. Submit ONE poem only (no longer than five pages). Kim Ann Arstark Memorial Awards Two awarded to Graduate Students Two awarded to Undergraduate Students For the best poem or poems (up to 20 pages) written in celebration of life by an undergraduate or graduate student currently enrolled in the University. Submit one application only. The Alex Barry '20 Prize for Speculative Fiction One awarded to an undergraduate for a manuscript that excels in this form, in memory of Alex Barry, an undergraduate of singular imaginative energy and joyful and unconstrained humor, who brought much to the Literary Arts at Brown during a time of personal hardship, making clear in the process the meaning and purpose of literary writing, not only as personal expressive endeavor but as a gift to the community. . The Alexander Micheel Finkelstein Barry '20 Prize for Humor The Alexander Michael Finkelstein Barry '20 Prize for Humor is awarded each year to one undergraduate for a manuscript that excels in this forms, in memory of Alex Barry, an undergraduate of singular imaginative energy and joyful and unconstrained humor, who brought much to the Literary Arts at Brown during a time of personal hardship, making clear in the process the meaning and purpose of literary writing, not only as personal expressive endeavor but as a gift to the community. . The Mark Baumer Prize for Language Art One awarded to a Graduate Student One awarded to an Undergraduate Student There are two prizes for undergraduates, graduates, (and a third for staff from the Brown community, separately judged). Judges will be selected from the department's graduate alumni. Submissions in any media are welcome, provided they can be read as language art. Cross-disciplinary and digitally mediated work is particularly welcome, but any work of language art that engages compositionally with its media will be considered, regardless of genre or form. The extent of the work submitted should be commensurate with a short story, a substantial single poem, a short series of poems, etc. Submissions of carefully chosen extracts from more extensive work will also be welcome. Submit one application only. Feldman Prizes in Fiction Two awarded to Graduate Students Two awarded to Undergraduate Students For the best story or stories (up to 20 pages). Open to all undergraduate and graduate students currently enrolled in the University. Submit one application only. Beth Lisa Feldman Prize in Children’s Literature For the best story or stories written for children 4 to 8 years old (up to 50 pages). Open to all undergraduate and graduate students currently enrolled in the University. Submit one application only (and may be a collaboration). Frances Mason Harris ’26 Prizes For a book-length manuscript of poetry or prose fiction by a currently enrolled undergraduate or graduate woman. Submit one application only. John Hawkes and Robert Coover Prizes in Fiction This contest honors the memory of John Hawkes, the internationally-recognized author and dedicated professor of creative writing at Brown University, along with Robert Coover, TB Stowell University Professor and esteemed pracitioner of innovative fiction. The contest is open to all students currently enrolled in the Graduate Program in Literary Arts. The submission must be a work of fiction (up to 50 pages). Submit one application only. Edwin Honig Memorial Award One awarded to a Graduate Student One awarded to an Undergraduate Student For the best poem or poems (up to 10 pages) in honor of poet, translator and founder of Literary Arts, Edwin Honig. Submit one application only. Keith and Rosmarie Waldrop Prizes for Innovative Writing For literary work, any genre, that best exemplifies the spirit of innovation found in the writings and translations of Keith and Rosmarie Waldrop. Up to 15 pages. Open to all Brown students. Submit one application only. Home Black Lives Matter Events COVID-19 News People Directory & Office Hours Graduate Program Undergraduate Program Writing Samples, Fall 2022 Courses Waiting List Details Diversity, Inclusion & Equity Writers Online Literary Arts Community Alumni Notable Links Literary Arts Prizes Prize and Premium Recipients, 2021 Prize and Premium Recipients for 2020 Prize & Premium Winners for 2019 Prize and Premiums, Spring 2022 Print this Page Share this Page Literary Arts Brown University Box 1923 68.5 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3260 Fax 401-863-1535 [email protected]brown.edu In Literary Arts There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Highlighted Sites Events & News IWP @ Brown Writers Online Graduate School Find Us 68 1/2 Brown Street Follow us on Facebook