Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Professional Training Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference About The Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Our Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference brings rabbis to our New York campus for an intensive learning experience with JTS’s outstanding scholars. It’s also a time for spiritual reflection, socializing with colleagues, and exploring New York City. Recent Topics 2019 Expanding the Jewish Canon, Expanding Your Rabbinic Repertoire Co-sponsored by The Rabbinical Assembly Three days of study transforming the textual heritage drawn upon by rabbis, incorporating voices that have been marginalized historically—including women, Jews of color, LGBTQ Jews, and those with disabilities. JTS faculty and other scholars introduce new voices into the canon as well as offer tools to read ancient texts through new lenses. Participants explore how to use these diversified texts to reach the broad spectrum of community members through their teaching, in the hopes of creating more inclusive communities. 2018 Beyong the Huppah: A Rabbinic Learning Conference on Working with Interfaith Families Interfaith families have become an important constituency in Conservative communities, notwithstanding the prohibition on offciating at interfaith wedding ceremonies. What language and conceptual frameworks can we develop for connecting in substantive and sustained ways with interfaith families? What skills and resources can we cultivate—pastoral, ritual, educational, and communal—to keep interfaith couples and their children engaged apart from their wedding ceremonies? How can we approach other key moments in the lives of interfaith couples as unique opportunities for us to serve as their rabbis and to foster deep connections to Jewish tradition and Jewish community? 2017 Moral Leadership in Jewish Text and Tradition In-depth Torah study delving into key questions of moral leadership, dissent and resistance, the prophetic voice, mysticism and the moral life, and more. Faculty These are some of the distinguished faculty who have taught at the Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference. Rabbi Eliezer Diamond, PhD, JTS Dr. Ora Horn Prouser (JTS PhD ‘91), Academy for Jewish Religion Dr. Amy Kalmanofsky, JTS Dr. Joy Ladin, Yeshiva University Rabbi Jay Michaelson, PhD Kendell Pinkney, JTS ’23 Dr. Michal Raucher, JTS Fellow, Rutgers University Rabbi Shais Rishon Rabbi Mychal Springer, JTS Rabbi Lauren Tuchman (JTS ’18), Avodah Dr. Sarah Wolf, JTS What People Are Saying “This should be on every rabbi’s summer to-do list!” —Rabbi Ethan Witkovsky (RS ’14), Park Avenue Synagogue, New York, NY “There is no doubt in my mind that this program makes me a better rabbi for my congregants and for my own professional health. This is what makes the difference between a rabbi who simply is there at their job and a rabbi that is INSPIRED to function at the highest level possible.” —Rabbi David Kaiman (RS ’03), Congregation Bnai Israel, Gainesville, FL “The chance to connect with colleagues and learn with JTS faculty is invaluable. All professionals need continuing education to remain sharp—this conference helps provide this essential opportunity for rabbis.” —Rabbi Dan Selsberg (Ziegler ’06), Temple Sholom, Bridgewater, NJ “The conference offered me the opportunity to learn with inspiring JTS faculty along with treasured colleagues and friends old and new. Exhilarating!” —Rabbi Debra Cantor (RS ’88), Neshama @ B’nai Tikvoh-Sholom, Bloomfield, CT Contact Us For more information, please contact us at rabbinicresources@jtsa.edu. Director Julia Andelman Director of Community Engagement As JTS’s director of community engagement, Rabbi Julia Andelman oversees adult learning programs across North America, digital learning, continuing rabbinic education, millennial engagement, and Prozdor. Since joining JTS in 2013, she has initiated livestreaming of JTS’s public lectures, created a video studio for digital learning programs, developed high-level curricula for congregations and other settings, and increased continuing rabbinic education tenfold. Read More SHARE THIS PAGE Are you a rabbi? Sign up to receive updates about JTS’s continuing rabbinic education programs. First Name(Required) Last Name(Required) Email(Required) RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message