Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Communication Menu Main Nav Communication Department Communication Contact Back Back Close About Overview Message From the Chairperson Contact Giving News and Notes People Overview Full-Time Faculty Alumni Profiles Undergraduate Overview Major Requirements Courses Academic Advising Honors Program Eligibility Honors Course Requirements Registration in Honors Courses Honors Timeline Honors Recognition Thesis Requirements Honors FAQ Transfer Credit & Cross Registration Study Abroad Awards Related Links Admission Careers Fulton Debate Research Overview Guides Organizations Internships Overview One Credit Internship Senior Internship Seminar Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Welcome to the Communication Department Established in 1961, the Communication department has become one of the largest undergraduate majors at Boston College. Over the past 50 years the Department has grown from three to 14 full-time faculty; from a handful of students to more than 900 majors; and from an orientation primarily devoted to teaching the composition and delivery of speeches, to the broad gamut of theories and methods encompassed by communication. News & Notes All Alumni Awards Faculty In the media Presentations Publications Students More News Faculty Documentary Film Prof. Matt Sienkiewicz produced and co-directed a documentary, The Ragged Edge, which premiered on Wisconsin PBS. The Ragged Edge is documentary about survival on and off the racetrack; about riding the edge between victory and oblivion. Its focus is Erik Buell Racing (EBR), the only American sport bike company. EBR is now racing for survival. This documentary combines the power, excitement and tension of motorcycle racing from the point of view of the teams in the pits with the equally powerful stories of a company trying to make it through a financial maelstrom and the personal survival of working families in America’s heartland. Facilities Tour The Media Lab is located in Lyons Hall 215 and features nine editing suites and a recording studio. A variety of software is available including Avid Pro Tools and Apple Final Cut Pro. The Media Lab features nine video editing suites. Video production courses are taught in a television studio maintained by Media Technology Services in Campion Hall. Among the services offered there are video production, a three-camera television studio, editing facilities, video camcorder loans, and a satellite downlink station. The studio also offers production and editing facilities. Back To Top Back To Top Communication Department St. Mary's Hall South, 4th Floor 617-552-4280 Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to the Department Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College