Admission Contacts and Deadlines - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Graduate School Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Graduate School COVID-19 Updates Prospective/Admitted Students Current Students Admissions Where to Begin How to Apply Programs and Colleges Online Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Dual Degree Programs Accelerated Pathway Program Admission Contacts and Deadlines International Students International Applicants English Language Proficiency Transcript Information International Admitted Students I-20 and Financial Backing Information GRE/GMAT Waiver Check Application Status Admitted Students Academics Graduate Programs Masters Programs Doctoral Programs Online Programs Graduate Certificates Dual-Degree Programs Accelerated Pathway Programs Doctoral Characteristics Graduate Program Review Academic Advising Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Student Handbook Thesis & Dissertation Outstanding Thesis Award Outstanding Dissertation Award Dissertation Accelerator CIRTL Co-curricular PD Registration International Students Where to Begin How to Apply International Applicants English Language Proficiency Transcript Information International Admitted Students I-20 and Financial Backing Information Graduate Funding How to Fund Graduate School Tuition & Fees Forms & Procedures Events Graduate Appreciation Week Calendar Graduate Orientation Graduate School Fair 3MT Ombuds About Graduate School Team Graduate & Professional Studies Committee (GPSC) Graduate & Professional Students Association (GPSA) Contact Us Contact Us FAQ's UH Home UH Graduate School Admissions Admission Contacts and Deadlines Admission Contacts and Deadlines Page contents: A B C E F G H I K L M N O P S T U W A Accountancy C.T. Bauer College of Business Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program The Department of Accountancy & Taxation’s MSACCY Accounting Program is recognized by the AACSB and has received separate Accounting Accreditation from the AACSB. Less than 2% of the worldwide accounting programs have received this important designation as one of the highest quality academic programs which ensure that students are learning material most relevant to their field of study, preparing them to be effective leaders upon graduation. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Accountancy, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Graduate Advisor 713-743-4696 July 1 May 1 Dec 1 Oct 1 May 2 Feb 15 Accountancy and Taxation C.T. Bauer College of Business Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program Our program strives to prepare students for research-oriented academic careers. We train our students so they are able to contribute to the accounting literature and teach various accounting courses. Our department prides itself on the research accomplishments and the broad research interests of our faculty ranging from financial, managerial, and tax accounting to auditing, accounting for non-profit organizations, and accounting theory. The faculty and students collaborate in many research projects. Some of these projects were published in top-tier journals when students were at Bauer and after they have graduated. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Accountancy and Taxation, PhD Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Bauer PhD Program Dr. Volkan Muslu Jan 10 Jan 10 N/A N/A N/A N/A Administration and Supervision College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog M.Ed. Program The Master’s Program in Administration and Supervision provides a strong foundation of knowledge, skills, real-world experience, and innovative research to prepare students to be educational leaders. Graduates fill an important need in the community, serving in diverse positions in both public and private educational institutions. The degree fulfills requirements for the Texas Standard Principal Certificate. However, graduates also pursue positions across the educational community and in business settings. The M.Ed. degree also fulfills requirements for the Texas Examinations of Educator Standards (TExES) Principal (068) certification. The Administration & Supervision program develops professional leadership, ethical, interpersonal and intrapersonal skills. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Administration & Supervision, M.Ed. Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Keith Butcher June 1 May 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 April 15 April 15 Aerospace Engineering Cullen College of Engineering Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program The Houston area is recognized nationally for the strength of its aerospace-oriented companies and its proximity to the NASA Johnson Space Center. The Aerospace Program offers the opportunity for graduate study to those employed or seeking employment in the aerospace field to help them advance in the technical track of this profession. The Aerospace Engineering Program at UH provides graduate education in Aerospace Engineering to those interested in acquiring advanced knowledge, conducting research and pursuing careers in this field. The program offers the opportunity for full-time or part-time graduate study to those employed or seeking employment in Aerospace Engineering to help them advance in the technical track of the profession. This is an interdisciplinary program taught by faculty in the Mechanical Engineering Department with assistance from other colleges and departments at UH. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Aerospace Engineering, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International ME Academic Advisor 713-743-4500 May 15 May 15 Dec 1 Nov 1 N/A N/A Anthropology College of Liberal Arts & Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program The Anthropology program in the Department of Comparative Cultural Studies offers a Master of Arts that allows concentration within the Cultural Anthropology, Archaeological Anthropology, and Biological Anthropology sub-disciplines, according to the student’s interests. Anthropology is a holistic discipline studying humans past and present and teaches students how to navigate our multicultural world and add to the knowledge of humanity today and in the past. The typical student that pursues this degree has an interest in doing research in prehistoric or historic populations or in working in contemporary agencies and businesses who need expertise in multicultural situations. Our graduates typically enter a PhD program for further study, teach in community colleges, or work as applied anthropologists in a variety of fields. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Anthropology, MA Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Rachel Afi Quinn 713-743-1339 June 1 April 1 Feb 16 Feb 16 N/A N/A Applied Mathematics College of Natural Science and Mathematics Link to Graduate catalog MS Program The intent of the Master of Science in Applied Mathematics is to provide students with training in mathematics appropriate for many professional positions in industry. In particular, this program is aimed at developing practical computational and analytical mathematical skills required to tackle realistic problems. Students entering this program are required to have some background in applied mathematics equivalent to at least a minor in mathematics. Several professional certificate programs are offered under this program for students who want to specialize in a particular area of interest. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Applied Mathematics, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Neha Valji 713-743-3517 July 1 April 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 April 1 N/A Architectural Studies Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture & Design Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program The Master of Arts in Architectural Studies [MAAS] is an advanced degree focused on deep research into the built environment. Students pursuing the Master of Arts in Architectural Studies must have earned a four-year Bachelor’s degree from an accredited university. Students must select one of the areas of advanced study as listed. The Master of Arts in Architectural Studies is an advanced degree. It is not a post-professional degree. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Architectural Studies, MA Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Trang Phan 713-743-3463 May 31 April 30 N/A N/A N/A N/A Architecture Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture & Design Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program Students pursuing the Master of Science in Architecture must have earned a Bachelor of Architecture or equivalent professional degree from an accredited university. Students must also select one of the areas of advanced study as listed. The Master of Science in Architecture is a post-professional degree. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Architecture, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Trang Phan 713-743-3463 May 31 April 30 N/A N/A N/A N/A Architecture Level I Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture & Design Link to Graduate Catalog M. Arch Program This program is dedicated to critical inquiry and the professional discipline of architecture. With a two year (five semester) core studio sequence followed by a culminating year (two semester) focused on cutting edge research and experimentation, the curriculum has focused and cumulative thematic sequence of: conceptualization (fall year 1); materialization (spring year 1); fabrication (summer year 1 design build); contextualization (fall year 2); synthetization (spring year 2); globalization (optional summer year 2); individuation (fall year 3); and assertion (spring year 3). Beginning with a core studio sequence with integrated history and theory; technology of materials and assemblies, structures, and environmental and sustainable systems; and professional practice; the core sequence is augmented by a large selection of topical studios, global studies, elective seminars and a culminating yearlong master’s project. This curricular flexibility allows for concentrations in Media + Fabrication, Sustainable Architecture and Urban Systems. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Architecture Level I, M. Arch Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Trang Phan 713-743-3463 Jan 1 Jan 1 N/A N/A N/A N/A Architecture Level II Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture & Design Link to Graduate Catalog M. Arch Program The four semester program consists of 60 academic credits that include the course work described below. Since students entering this program must already hold a degree in Architecture or Environmental Design, some of the requirements described below may have been met in advance. For such students, the curriculum may be modified by course waivers or substitution of electives for courses previously taken at another university. The appropriate area coordinator and the Director of Graduate Studies must approve any General Petitions for substitutions or course waivers in the degree plan. Students with deficiencies may be required to undertake additional course work. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Architecture Level II, M. Arch Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Trang Phan 713-743-3463 Jan 1 Jan 1 N/A N/A N/A N/A Art History Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program A core principle of the University of Houston’s Art History graduate program is flexibility, making it both dynamic and interdisciplinary. The M.A. in Art History at the University of Houston provides the graduate student with a firm grounding in the discipline of art history coupled with the riches of major art institutions in a dynamic urban art world. The program is designed with a minimal number of required courses to give students the opportunity to design a program that best suits their individual needs and aspirations. In addition to art history, specializations are also available in Curatorial and Theoretical Perspectives or in Art Criticism and Writing, with thesis and non-thesis tracks in each. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Art History, MA Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Kelly Ibarra 713-743-5934 May 15 May 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Arts Leadership Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program The Master of Arts program in Arts Leadership in the College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences at the University of Houston takes an entrepreneurial approach to preparing creative professionals to launch, administer and maintain arts organizations of all sizes. The degree program provides advanced study in the management and promotions of arts organizations across artistic disciplines. Students enrolled full-time can complete the degree requirements in two years. Those who wish to continue full-time or part-time employment during the day may complete this program as courses will be offered during evening hours. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Arts Leadership, MA Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Prof. Fleurette Fernando 713-743-4817 May 1 May 1 Nov 1 N/A N/A N/A Athletic Training College of Liberal Arts & Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog MAT Program Athletic Trainers (ATs) are healthcare professionals who render service or treatment, under the direction of or in collaboration with a physician, in accordance with their education and training and the states' statutes, rules and regulations. As a part of the healthcare team, services provided by ATs include injury and illness prevention, wellness promotion and education, emergent care, examination and clinical diagnosis, therapeutic intervention, and rehabilitation of injuries and medical conditions. Athletic training is recognized by the American Medical Association (AMA) as a health care profession. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Athletic Training, MAT Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Lauren Till 713-743-5882 N/A N/A N/A N/A Feb 7 Jan 15 Atmospheric Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Department of Earth & Atmospheric Sciences offers a wide range of courses leading to the Master of Science in Atmospheric Sciences degree and Degree of PhD in Atmospheric Sciences. The Department will provide all its students with educational programs that encompass the fundamental principles of the atmospheric sciences and the body of knowledge associated with the application of these principles to the study of the atmospheric sciences. Students will receive specialized instruction in the acquisition, processing, and interpretation of Atmospheric Science data and the application of Atmospheric Science methods to problem-solving. Students successfully completing the programs will be prepared for a career as a professional atmospheric scientist. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Karen Maldonado Jim Parker Atmospheric Sciences, MS June 7 May 7 Dec 1 Nov 1 N/A N/A Atmospheric Sciences, PhD June 7 May 7 Dec 1 Nov 1 N/A N/A B Biochemistry College of Natural Science and Mathematics Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Department of Biology and Biochemistry offers a program of research and study leading to a PhD degree in Biochemistry. The Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree will be awarded after students have successfully completed the following requirements. Students may satisfy the degree requirements by completing at least 54 approved semester hours if entering the program with a bachelor’s degree, or 24 hours if entering with a Master’s degree; satisfactorily completing the laboratory rotations and formal graduate level course requirements including seminars; enrolling in at least six semester hours of dissertation courses; and completing and defending a dissertation acceptable to the dissertation committee. All students must be continuously enrolled full time until the degree requirements are complete. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Rosezelia Jackson Biochemistry, PhD June 30 May 31 Nov 1 Nov 1 N/A N/A Biology College of Natural Science and Mathematics Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Department of Biology & Biochemistry offers graduate programs in Biology. The graduate program in Biology has three degree tracks: a Certificate in Biomedical Sciences track, a Cell and Molecular Biology degree track, and an Ecology and Evolution degree track. The Certificate in Biomedical Sciences is only offered in conjunction with a non-thesis M.S. in Biology. The other graduate programs and degree tracks mirror the organization of the department into three divisions: Biochemistry, Cell and Molecular Biology, and Ecology and Evolution. Each division has similar, although not identical, requirements for its M.S. and Ph.D. degrees. Each division has a Policy Leader, who is a faculty member whose responsibilities include overseeing the progress of students before they have chosen a thesis or dissertation advisor. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Biology, MS Biomedical Sciences Certification N/A N/A N/A N/A March 1 March 1 Wendy Johnson Biology, PhD June 30 May 31 Nov 1 Nov 1 N/A N/A Rosezelia Jackson Biomedical Engineering College of Engineering Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program Our main goal is to develop leadership in academia, government, and industry nationally and globally. The importance of global scientific, social, and cultural interaction and the demands of the dynamic, ever-changing global healthcare economy have been strongly emphasized in our undergraduate and graduate programs. The research in the graduate program focuses on three main areas, neural, cognitive, and rehabilitation engineering, biomedical imaging, and bionanoscience. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Charlotte Waits 713-743-3750 Biomedical Engineering, MS May 15 May 15 Oct 15 Oct 15 May 15 March 15 Biomedical Engineering, PhD May 15 May 15 Oct 15 Oct 15 May 1 May 1 Biomedical Engineering, MS (UH Extend - Online) July 1 July 1 Dec 1 Dec 1 N/A N/A Biotechnology College of Technology Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program The Biotechnology degree program provides students with strong core science concepts and an application-oriented undergraduate education. Strongly interdisciplinary, this innovative program includes faculty and courses from the College of Technology and the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics. Our objective is to prepare students for employment opportunities in the critically important and dynamic biotechnology industry. In addition, students gain the knowledge and core set of skills that span across basic sciences, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education. The track in Biotechnology emphasizes bioprocessing, protein engineering, computational biology, and federal regulations. Designed to help prepare individuals to conduct or supervise research and development in biotechnology or medical fields. This is a highly inter-and multi-disciplinary degree and its flexibility will allow students to tailor the coursework to meet their individual career goals. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Biotechnology, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International COT Graduate Admissions 713-743-4100 July 31 April 1 Dec 15 Oct 1 N/A N/A Business Administration C.T. Bauer College of Business Link to Graduate Catalog MBA-Full Time program | Link to Graduate Catalog Professional MBA program The C. T. Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston is located in the heart of Houston and fuels the city’s workforce. Our graduate students have the benefits of an on-campus education, a world-renowned faculty that provides personalized attention in classrooms of diverse professionals, and a strong network of Bauer alumni that dominates the Houston workforce - truly making the Bauer MBA, Houston’s MBA. The Full-Time MBA program is a 22 month experience, built on a rigorous core curriculum that also allows students a great deal of flexibility. Electives and graduate certificates within the program provide the specialized knowledge needed for success in a wide variety of careers in business. The Professional MBA program offers evening courses for the working professional, with flexible scheduling options. This 24 month program also allows a great deal of flexibility in choosing electives and graduate certificates. Students in both the Full-Time and Professional formats of the MBA are supported by Bauer’s Rockwell Center for Career Services. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Full time: Lenay Johnson (713) 743-3726 Professional: Taneika Young (713) 743-4701 Full-Time MBA June 1 April 1 Oct 31 Oct 1 N/A N/A Professional MBA Aug 15 April 1 Jan 10 Oct 1 N/A N/A Business Analytics C.T. Bauer College of Business Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program As big data becomes increasingly ubiquitous, the information gleaned from data analytics is rapidly becoming one of the most transformative assets an organization can leverage. Today’s organizations seek professionals who have the skills to create, manage, and use this information to allow them to gain and maintain their competitive advantage. Using a combination of classroom activities and real-world projects, the Bauer Master of Science in Business Analytics (MSBA) Program will make you one of these highly sought after business professionals for many organizations in a wide variety of industries. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Business Analytics, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Lenay Johnson 713-743-3726 Aug 15 April 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 N/A N/A C Chemical Engineering Cullen College of Engineering Link to Graduate Catalog MChE Program | Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Master of Chemical Engineering (MChE) degree is offered as a non-thesis program for the working professional. The program has been designed for those persons who plan careers in plant operations, design and management. It is not intended to be competitive with the Master of Science degree, which is specifically consist of research based courses. The MSChE degree is obtained through coursework only. This program focuses on advanced engineering fundamentals. Students with a BS degree in Chemical Engineering or related field obtain a course-based MSChE degree. The mission of the PhD program is to train graduate students and contribute to the development of fundamental knowledge in the field of chemical engineering. The department’s diverse research is at the forefront of traditional and emerging chemical engineering disciplines including biomolecular engineering, Nano-materials, environmental reaction engineering, energy, control theory, polymers, transport, catalysis, separation processes and plasma processing science and applications. The department offers courses in the core disciplines of chemical engineering, as well as a broad range of electives on current and developing topics. Students’ education is broadened by a series of seminars by internationally known speakers from academia and industry. Many of our students also participate in internships during their Ph.D. tenure. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Yolanda Thomas 713-743-4311 Chemical Engineering, MChE May 15 May 15 Feb 16 Feb 16 N/A N/A Chemical Engineering, MS Feb 15 Feb 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Chemical Engineering, PhD Feb 15 Feb 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Chemistry College of Natural Science and Mathematics Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Department of Chemistry at the University of Houston is ranked by the National Research Council in the top 50% of 212 doctoral programs in the U.S. Members of the faculty, postdoctoral researchers, graduate students, and undergraduate students perform cutting-edge research in diverse areas of chemistry, chemical biology, and materials chemistry. There is a strong emphasis on cross-disciplinary research involving other UH departments and colleges, and universities throughout the world. Chemistry faculty members have been recognized nationally and internationally for their research and teaching with Guggenheim, Dreyfus, Sloan, Fulbright, Beckman, NSF Career, Cottrell, Keck, and Humboldt awards. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International MyTrang Baccam Chemistry, MS March 31 March 31 N/A N/A N/A N/A Chemistry, PhD March 31 March 31 N/A N/A N/A N/A Civil Engineering Cullen College of Engineering Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Department of Civil Engineering offers graduate study in environmental, Geosensing systems, geotechnical, materials, hydraulic/water resources, and structural engineering. The department has well equipped research laboratories fitted with state-of-the-art instruments. The structural laboratory has more than 2,500 square feet of strong floor with a 2.5-million-pound MTS testing system, a large panel tester with forty 100- ton jacks, a biaxial fatigue tester and a walk-in chamber for large scale environmental testing. The materials testing laboratory is equipped with a 2-foot-deep strong floor and a 400-kip Tinius-Olsen universal testing machine. The geotechnical facility includes a laboratory with triaxial testing capability, sophisticated pile test chambers and fully equipped grouting and soil mechanics laboratories. The hydraulic facility is equipped with a fluid mechanics/wave mechanics laboratory with a 50-ft long tilting flume and state-of-the-art ADV and LSPIV. The environmental laboratories encompass a 2,000 square foot analytical research facility with state-of-the-art instrumentation that allows for analysis of most contaminants in soil, water and air as well as microbial and molecular analysis. The Geosensing laboratory includes an optical laboratory and specialized airborne and terrestrial based remote sensing equipment. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Jose Rodriguez 713-743-7060 Civil Engineering, MS May 15 May 15 Feb 16 Feb 16 N/A N/A Civil Engineering, PhD May 15 May 15 Feb 16 Feb 16 N/A N/A Communication Sciences & Disorders College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD program The Master of Arts education program in Speech Language Pathology at the University of Houston is accredited by the Council on Academic Accreditation in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA). Therefore, the Communication Disorders MA provides students with the required academic and practicum experience to apply for the Certificate of Clinical Competence (CCC) of ASHA and to apply for licensure to practice speech language pathology in Texas. Students who complete this program are prepared to take the national Praxis Speech Language Pathology exam and to begin their clinical fellowships, the final required steps to reaching full certification (CCC). The Doctoral of Philosophy (PhD) program in Communication Sciences and Disorders prepares students to become the next generation of leading researchers and scholars in speech language pathology and communication disorders. The program is the only one of its kind in the Houston area, offering students high-quality instruction and hands-on research experiences, including access to research opportunities in the Texas Medical Center – the largest medical center in the world. The program is mentor-based and individualized with the student and mentor designing a program of study that meets the student’s goals. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Communication Sciences & Disorders, MA Jan 15 Jan 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Dr. Laura Cizek 713-743-2683 Communication Sciences & Disorders, PhD Dec 15 Dec 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Dr. Ashwini Joshi 713-743-6136 Computational Health Informatics College of Technology Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program The Computational Health Informatics program is a highly interdisciplinary degree that aims at preparing the next generation of engineers for a career in the technological transformation of healthcare. The program places specific emphasis on mobile computing, medical imaging and instrumentation, wearable sensors, multimodal data mining, and information security as applied to health care delivery. Driven by strong market demand, the program is designed to provide students with a solid background in analytical methodologies, computational tools, devices, physiological modeling and simulation, and biomedical devices relevant to healthcare applications for detecting diseases, assisting with treatment, and monitoring efficacy of therapeutic interventions. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Computational Health Informatics, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International COT Graduate Admissions 713-743-4100 July 31 April 1 Dec 15 Oct 1 N/A N/A Computer & Systems Engineering Cullen College of Engineering Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program The Computer and Systems Engineering (CSE) degree offered by the University of Houston (UH) is a graduate level interdisciplinary program administered by the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) that provides specialization in Computer Engineering. Applicants can have a BS in any one of the following fields: Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Computer Science or a degree in any Engineering field or Quantitative Science. Depending on a previous background a set of prerequisites might have to be satisfied before the student starts the graduate program in CSE. A student can complete the degree either on a full or part-time basis and has the option of doing a thesis or not. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Computer & Systems Engineering, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Nafeesa Lynn 713-743-4403 Mar 15(*priority) May 15(regular) Mar 15(*priority) May 15(regular) Oct 15 Oct 15 N/A N/A Computer Science College of Natural Science and Mathematics Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program | Link to Graduate Program PhD Program The University of Houston Computer Science Department has 27 tenured or tenure-track faculty members. Selected members of our faculty have received the NSF Career award, served as president of the IEEE Computer Society, or served on the Board of the Computer Research Association (CRA). Computer Science at UH ranks in the Top 50 in the nation according to two objective ranking programs. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International COSC Graduate Admissions 713-743-3350 Computer Science, MS June 1 Jan 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Computer Science, PhD June 1 Jan 15 Oct 1 Oct 1 N/A N/A Construction Management College of Technology Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program The Construction Management Master’s degree program provides the knowledge and skills essential for successful leadership positions in the construction industry. The curriculum focuses on both fundamental knowledge and advanced topics. Fundamental courses include estimating, scheduling, contracting, and project management and advanced courses include risk analysis, decision making, computer applications, green construction, quality management, leadership, modeling and optimization, and building information modeling. The program attracts students and working professionals with a diverse background in engineering, construction, and architecture. Our graduates are prepared to work in the construction industry and in academia. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Construction Management, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International COT Graduate Admissions 713-743-4100 July 31 April 1 Dec 15 Oct 1 N/A N/A Counseling College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog M.Ed. Program The Masters of Education in counseling program prepares students for careers as a professional counselor. Many of our students will pursue a national licensure to become a licensed professional counselor (LPC) post-graduation. The program’s faculty is dedicated to providing graduates a deep understanding of counseling knowledge, skills and techniques. Graduates will gain an understanding and awareness of the role and influence professional counselors plays in our communities. At the University of Houston, we prepare graduates to providing services for a diverse and ever-changing population, while preparing them for the future of our technology driven society and profession. As our program moves toward national accreditation we value a rich education experience that lays the foundation for professional and personal enrichment. We now conveniently offered a variety of face-to-face, hybrid and online courses that are offered at the UH Main campus and Sugar Land campus. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Counseling, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Rachael Whitaker Feb 15 Feb 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Counseling Psychology College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program Accredited by the American Psychological Association since 1987, the Counseling Psychology doctoral program trains psychologists to become health service psychologists and psychological researchers. Through our challenging curriculum and supportive student environment, it is our goal to develop psychologists who are skilled in the practical practice of psychology, produce graduates who have a solid foundation of psychological science, and produce graduates who display ethical behavior and professionalism. The program offers the preparation necessary for students to apply for licensure as psychologists in Texas and other states and provinces. Our graduates are employed in settings such as hospitals, colleges and university psychology departments, university and college counseling centers, community agencies, clinics, private practice, and K-12 schools. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Counseling Psychology, PhD Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Blake Allan Nov 1 Nov 1 N/A N/A N/A N/A Curriculum & Instruction - Art Education College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog M.Ed. Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Masters Program in Curriculum & Instruction - Art Education produces graduates who excel at art instruction as well as understand the criticism, technology and curriculum that shape the field. However, many students serve in the wider community, in museums or other community arts organizations. Students may choose to pursue the state of Texas Art Teaching Certification (Early Childhood-12th grade) and a Master's Degree simultaneously. The Ph.D. in Curriculum and Instruction prepares aspiring scholars and researchers to meet today’s challenges to education in multicultural urban settings. The Houston metropolitan area, with over one and a half million K-12 students, is a laboratory of practice for our Ph.D. students from nearby and from around the world. Here, they can engage in inquiry on critical issues and needs germane to education in an increasingly diverse society. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Art Education, M.Ed. July 1 June 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 April 1 March 1 Dr. Sheng Chung Art Education, PhD Jan 15 Jan 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Curriculum & Instruction - Bilingual/ESL Education College of Education The M.Ed. in Curriculum & Instruction – Bilingual/ESL Education prepares teachers and other professionals to become leaders and change agents in this increasingly important field. Students gain cutting-edge knowledge and expertise in learning theories and curricular design and implementation specific to bilingual/ESL education in K-12 classrooms and higher education settings. The program focuses on analysis of theories and approaches in bilingualism/second language acquisition, curriculum development and implementation, language assessment, sociocultural context and policies. The Ph.D. in Curriculum and Instruction prepares aspiring scholars and researchers to meet today’s educational challenges in multicultural urban settings. The Houston metropolitan area, with 1.5 million K-12 students, is a laboratory of practice for our Ph.D. students from nearby and from around the world. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Bilingual/ESL Education M.Ed. July 1 June 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 April 1 March 1 Dr. Jie Zhang Bilingual/ESL Education Ph.D Jan 15 Jan 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Curriculum & Instruction - Early Childhood Education College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog M.Ed. Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Early Childhood Education emphasis is designed to meet the educational needs of researchers who seek to improve their investigative and instructional skills in early childhood education settings within urban environments. Courses, field experiences, and research studies are complemented with progressively more involved curricula encompassing young children in group settings within public and private settings. Such training is the best possible preparation for careers in higher education, in schools as educational leaders and in child-related agencies. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Early Childhood Education, M.Ed. July 1 June 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 April 1 March 1 Dr. Samuel Brower Early Childhood Education, PhD Jan 15 Jan 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Curriculum & Instruction - Learning, Design and Technology College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog M.Ed. Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Master’s program in Curriculum & Instruction - Learning, Design & Technology systematically prepares education, health care, and business professionals to create, deliver and analyze instruction and improve performance using effective technology tools. The program provides opportunities to learn new and innovative skills to integrate the latest technologies in teaching and learning. There is a strong connection between course activities and implementing and improving practices in an instructional setting. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International LDT, M.Ed. July 1 June 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 April 1 March 1 Dr. Susie Gronseth LDT, PhD Jan 15 Jan 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Dr. Sara McNeil Curriculum & Instruction - Mathematics Education College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog M.Ed. Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Master’s program in Curriculum and Instruction - Mathematics Education produces educators in mathematics who are well versed in current research and theories about mathematics learning and teaching. Graduates teach mathematics at all levels, from early childhood through college, and serve as leaders across the field. The program focuses on analysis of theories about curriculum development and implementation, learning and assessment, equity in mathematics education and becoming an agent of change in mathematics education. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Mathematics Education, M.Ed. July 1 June 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 April 1 March 1 Dr. Jennifer Chauvot Mathematics Education, PhD Jan 15 Jan 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Curriculum & Instruction - Reading, Language Arts, and Literacy Education College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog M.Ed. Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The M. Ed. in Curriculum & Instruction -Reading, Language Arts, and Literature Education offer graduates two options to prepare for positions in literacy education: A Master’s degree without certification – This option enables the students and advisors to tailor a degree plan specific to interests in literacy education. Students interested in this route may be previously certified to teach or interested in learning more about research in the field. A Master’s Degree with Teacher certification – In addition to providing students with research skills, this option provides preparation for 3 different possible certifications: Standard Teacher Certification in English, Language Arts, and Reading Reading Specialist Certification Master Reading Teacher The doctoral program in Reading, Language Arts, and Literature concentrates on the effective teaching of reading, writing, and communicating. Literacy development, content area reading, clinical diagnosis, the psychology of reading, reading comprehension, and the analysis of reading programs and other curriculum materials in language arts are studied in advanced seminars. In addition, this program provides for advanced study in literature for children and young adults. Graduates from the program are university professors, literacy curriculum specialists, school administrators, and campus literacy coaches. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International RLAL Education, M.Ed. July 1 June 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 April 1 March 1 Dr. Laveria Hutchison RLAL Education, PhD Jan 15 Jan 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Curriculum & Instruction - Science Education College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog M.Ed. Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Master’s program in Curriculum & Instruction-Science Education prepares individuals for a rigorous and rewarding career in science education. Students will undertake a concentrated plan of course work and professional activity in order to: Become more proficient in teaching science Gain an understanding of the nature of science, inquiry-based instruction, and environmental and science/societal issue investigations Learn how to teach in a diverse and complex school environment The doctoral program with an emphasis in Science Education prepares graduates to fill a variety of leadership positions in education. The many graduates have assumed positions as: science education researchers and teacher trainers at universities; science supervisors in school systems; science teachers at pre-college and college levels; educational specialists at zoos, planetariums, and museums; and directors of training programs in business and industry. The degree serves to bridge the career aspirations of the candidate with his or her expertise and experiences. It places emphasis upon research and scholarly activity in the areas of curriculum development, teaching skills and instructional strategies, and theories of learning. A major focus is the improvement of scientific and technological literacy of school-age children and adults in the U.S. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Science Education, M.Ed. July 1 June 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 April 1 March 1 Dr. Sissy Wong Science Education, PhD Jan 15 Jan 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Curriculum & Instruction - Social/History Education College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog M.Ed. Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Master’s Program in Curriculum & Instruction - Social Studies/Social Education focuses on “powerful” teaching and learning of knowledge, skills, and attitudes. It emphasizes education that is meaningful, integrated, challenging, value-based, and active. It also suggests a broader perspective that incorporates knowledge, skills, and dispositions that facilitate active citizenship and global perspectives. The doctoral program in Social Studies Education is designed to prepare college instructors, researchers, curriculum leaders, and teachers who are able to draw upon the social and behavioral sciences to understand and investigate problems in education. Program students are encouraged to select course work and learning experiences that are relevant to their own professional academic goals. The student may select a theme that will provide an interdisciplinary basis for his or her program. The program also provides for attention to the teaching of social issues, the social sciences and history as well as to such topics as curriculum construction, controversial issues, the conduct of inquiry, and political socialization. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International SS Education, M.Ed. July 1 June 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 April 1 March 1 Dr. Samuel Brower Dr. Margaret Hale SS Education, PhD Jan 15 Jan 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Curriculum & Instruction - STEM Education College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog M.Ed. Program The M.Ed. in curriculum and instruction — STEM prepares secondary math and science teachers in high-need school districts to become leaders in science, technology, engineering and math education. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Jennifer Chauvot STEM Education M.Ed. July 1 June 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 April 1 March 1 Curriculum & Instruction - Teaching and learning for Health Science College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog M.Ed. Program The University of Houston offers an online Master of Education degree in Curriculum and Instruction which emphasizes teaching and learning for health science professionals. Courses are taught by University of Houston College of Education faculty and the degree is awarded by the University of Houston. The program is designed to meet the needs of professionals involved in health science education and course content focuses on teaching and learning in academic health science settings. The instructors utilize academic activities that students can use in their professional lives as they explore best practices in teaching, learn to design and conduct research and investigate the uses of instructional technology in an educational environment. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Robert Hausmann Health Science Education, M.Ed. July 1 June 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 April 1 March 1 Curriculum & Instruction - Teaching and Teacher Education College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog M.Ed. Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program This area of emphasis provides the student with an intensive study of curricular and teacher effectiveness. It has been designed to enable educational practitioners-teachers, supervisors, staff developers, administrators, and those who aspire to be involved in curriculum development or teacher preparation and training at the university or college level to engage in stimulating, in-depth study and research with nationally recognized faculty. The experiences have been carefully planned to provide a mixture of knowledge, research, and practical experience. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International TEACH, M.Ed. July 1 June 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 April 1 March 1 Dr. Samuel Brower TEACH, PhD Jan 15 Jan 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Cyber Security College of Technology Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program The Master of Science (MS) degree in Cyber Security is a hands-on program designed specifically to prepare individuals for responsible leadership roles in the technology and information based workplaces. Designed for working professionals, this two-year program connects theory and experiential learning to equip technology professionals with the skills to assess the security needs of information systems and then to lead and manage the implementation and maintenance of the recommended security solutions. This program includes key management skills within the project management framework. In addition, this program is coupled with the Center for Information Security Research and Education which allows students the opportunity to engage in state of the art applied research. This program is also recognized as a National Security Agency/Department of Homeland Security Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance Education. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Cyber Security, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International COT Graduate Admissions 713-743-4100 July 31 April 1 N/A N/A N/A N/A E Economics College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The department of Economics at the University of Houston is made up of an innovative group of scholars who are dedicated to producing top-flight research while training our students in the latest techniques in economic analysis. The department offers a program of study leading to the Master of Arts degree in Applied Economics. The Master of Arts in Applied Economics degree is offered under two 30-hour plans; an internship option or an applied project option. Students of this program will be trained in microeconomics, macroeconomics, and econometrics and time-series data analysis. In addition, these general skills will be applied to the areas of health, financial, and energy economics for more focused training. The Department of Economics also offers a program leading to the Ph.D. degree in Economics designed to provide students rigorous training in economic theory and quantitative skills as well as an intensive exposure to several specialized areas of Economics. Ph.D. training provides skills needed in academic, government, or business careers. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Amber Pozo 713-743-3805 Applied Economics June 1 May 1 N/A N/A N/A N/A Economics, PhD Feb 1 Feb 1 N/A N/A N/A N/A Electrical Engineering Cullen College of Engineering Link to Graduate Catalog MEE Program | Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program Electrical and computer engineering graduate students at the University of Houston have the opportunity to work with and learn from faculty recognized as world leaders in their fields. These include Fellows of the IEEE and the National Academy of Inventors, multiple NSF CAREER Award winners, and investigators in major research projects supported by N/ASA, DARPA, NIH, ARPA-E and the NSF. ECE graduate students can also take full advantage of the college’s location in Houston. Many department researchers work closely with firms in the energy industry, allowing them to address the sector’s most pressing needs. Faculty also have ongoing collaborations with physicians and researchers at Texas Medical Center institutions, enabling them to bring advances from the lab to the clinic as quickly as possible. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Nafeesa Lynn 713-743-4403 Electrical Engineering, MEE Mar 15(*priority) May 15(regular) Mar 15(*priority) May 15(regular) Oct 15 Oct 15 N/A N/A Electrical Engineering, MS Mar 15(*priority) May 15(regular) Mar 15(*priority) May 15(regular) Oct 15 Oct 15 N/A N/A Electrical Engineering, PhD Mar 15(*priority) May 15(regular) Mar 15(*priority) May 15(regular) Oct 15 Oct 15 N/A N/A Energy, Environment & Natural Resource Law UH Law Center Link to Graduate Catalog LL.M Program The program trains lawyers to handle the complex legal and policy issues that surround three areas: Energy Production, Transportation, and Use Pollution Prevention and Biodiversity Protection Natural Resources Exploitation and Conservation Students in the program have included recent law school graduates and practitioners with varying years of experience. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Energy, Environment & Natural Resource Law, LL.M Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Graduate Legal Studies 713-743-2890 June 1 April 15 Nov 1 N/A N/A N/A English College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Department of English advances the intellectual and cultural life of our thriving global city and furthers a national and international dialogue on narrative, poetics, history, and culture. Our faculty in literature, creative writing, rhetoric and composition, linguistics, and folklore produce scholarly and imaginative works that bridge a wide spectrum of disciplinary fields and shape our social surroundings. We educate students to be active, innovative citizens in an information age defined by cultural diversity, interconnection, and boundless interactive possibilities. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Julie Kofford 713-743-2939 English, MA April 1 April 1 Nov 15 Nov 15 N/A N/A English, PhD Feb 15 Feb 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A English-Creative Writing College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog MFA Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The faculty and staff of the University of Houston Creative Writing Program work hard to ensure that their students have a rich and engaging graduate education. The staff provides support for both faculty and students, and the faculty are dedicated to providing a graduate education that helps their students grow as writers and people of letters. Through workshops, independent studies, and literature courses, the faculty work with students to challenge their understanding of themselves as writers and to deepen and critically reflect on the aesthetic, ethical, and political assumptions behind their writing. The faculty and staff seek, above all else, to provide students with a community in which writers can flourish. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Giuseppe Taurino 713-743-3014 Creative Writing, MFA Dec 31 Dec 31 N/A N/A N/A N/A Creative Writing, PhD Dec 31 Dec 31 N/A N/A N/A N/A Engineering Data Science Cullen College of Engineering Engineering Data Science is a broad field that encompasses predictive modeling and data-driven design of engineering systems. Applications range from health sciences and environmental sciences, to materials science, manufacturing, autonomous cars, image processing, and cybersecurity. The demand for graduates with a data science background is already high and is growing rapidly across a wide range of industries worldwide. Houston, being the energy capital of the world as well as the home of a thriving healthcare industry, is also seeing a persistent demand for workforce well-trained in data science. To provide state-of-the-art training for a data-centric workforce, the Cullen College of Engineering offers a Master of Science in Engineering Data Science. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Engineering Data Science, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Yashashree Kulkarni March 15(priority) May 15 (regular) March 15 (priority) May 15 (regular) 15-Oct 15-Oct N/A N/A 713-743-3657 Engineering Management Cullen College of Engineering The Department of Industrial Engineering at the Cullen College of Engineering offers a professional degree graduate program in Engineering Management (MEMGMT). The goal of the degree program is to: To meet the immediate need of local industries in trained engineering managers To address the need of integrating the engineering and management functions for high technology organizations. To provide skills and the necessary knowledge to manage functions within manufacturing and service organizations. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Engineering Management, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International June 1 N/A Dec 1 N/A N/A N/A Environmental Engineering Cullen College of Engineering Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Environmental Engineering Program of the University of Houston is an interdisciplinary graduate engineering program within the Cullen College of Engineering, administratively housed in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering. The Program and its faculty are internationally known for their research and teaching in water, wastewater, microbiology, bioremediation, soil and hazardous waste treatment and modeling, and airborne particulates. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Jose Rodriguez 713-743-7060 Environmental Engineering, MS March 15 March 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Environmental Engineering, PhD March 15 March 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A F Finance C.T. Bauer College of Business Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Bauer College of Business has assembled a nationally renowned faculty in finance. The current members of the faculty have over forty years of full-time experience as faculty at the top 10 finance departments. Recent rankings place the UH finance faculty sixteenth in the nation and second in the State of Texas. Our knowledge of what “works” at the top business schools in this country is being brought to bear on the task of providing the Houston community with the opportunity for training and advanced certification in finance commensurate with the fourth largest city in the United States. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Lenay Johnson 713-743-3726 PhD- Dr. Kris Jacobs Finance, MS Aug 15 April 1 Oct 1 N/A N/A N/A Finance, PhD Jan 10 Jan 10 N/A N/A N/A N/A Foresight College of Technology Link to Graduate Catalog MS program The Master of Science in Foresight, offered by the Department of Human Development and Consumer Sciences, is an interdisciplinary program that prepares students to become professional futurists or to bring a futures perspective to their current careers. This program uses a wide range of theoretical and practical models to examine the sources, patterns and causes of change in order to map probable, plausible and preferable futures. The curriculum is unique and rigorous. It prepares graduates to enter an emerging professional field that helps business, government, non-profits and others anticipate and prepare for the future. The 30-hour degree pulls from other academic disciplines such as Business, Government and Education. Courses include: Futures Research, World Futures, Systems Thinking, Strategic Planning, and Social Change. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Foresight, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International COT Graduate Admissions 713-743-4100 July 31 April 1 Dec 15 Oct 1 N/A N/A G Geology College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program | Link to Graduate Catalog Professional Program The Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences (EAS) will provide all of its students with educational programs that encompass the fundamental principles of the geosciences and the body of knowledge associated with the application of these principles to the study of the Earth and planetary materials. Masters-level students will receive specialized instruction in the acquisition, processing, and interpretation of geoscience data and the application of geoscience methods to problem-solving. Students successfully completing the program will be prepared for a career as a professional geoscientist. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Geology, MS Jan 5(*priority) June 7 (regular) Jan 5(*priority) May 7 (regular) Nov 7 Oct 7 April 7 Mar 7 Karen Maldonado Geology, PhD Jan 5(*priority) June 7 (regular) Jan 5(*priority) May 7 (regular) Nov 7 Oct 7 April 7 Mar 7 Geology-Professional June 7 May 7 Nov 7 Oct 7 April 7 Mar 7 Geophysics College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program | Link to Graduate Catalog Professional Program The Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences (EAS) offers a wide range of courses leading to the Geophysics degree. Required core courses ensure a breadth of knowledge in the discipline including rock physics, seismic wave propagation, geophysical data analysis, and potential field methods. A wide variety of electives allows concentration in areas such as exploration, geotechnical, or environmental geophysics, solid earth geophysics, petroleum exploration, marine geophysics, earthquake seismology, and geodynamics. The typical student pursuing this degree is interested in geophysics and has a good background in the geosciences, mathematics, physics, and computing. Graduates will typically pursue careers with resource companies; geophysical service companies; various federal, state, and local government agencies; in the financial sector; in education. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Geophysics, MS Jan 5(*priority) June 7 (regular) Jan 5(*priority) May 7 (regular) Nov 7 Oct 7 April 7 Mar 7 Jim Parker Geophysics, PhD Jan 5(*priority) June 7 (regular) Jan 5(*priority) May 7 (regular) Nov 7 Oct 7 April 7 Mar 7 Geophysics-Professional June 7 May 7 Nov 7 Oct 7 April 7 Mar 7 Geosensing Systems Cullen College of Engineering Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program In addition to study a broad range of Geosensing fundamentals, degree enjoy intensive exposure to a specific field of Geosensing systems engineering research. Individual research is the major focal point for students, who are expected to expand the frontiers of knowledge in their area of endeavor. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Jose Rodriguez 713-743-7060 Geosensing Systems, MS May 15 May 15 Jan 10 Oct 15 N/A N/A Geosensing Systems, PhD Mar 15(*priority) May 15(regular) Mar 15(*priority) May 15(regular) Oct 15 Oct 15 N/A N/A Global Energy Leadership C.T. Bauer College of Business Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program As the global commercial center for oil and gas production, Houston is the gateway to jobs in the energy industry. Bauer College is home to the Gutierrez Energy Management Institute (GEMI), which provides graduate curriculum in energy management that is now internationally recognized. The MS in Global Energy Management program is the natural next step for Bauer and GEMI to serve the needs of the energy industry, giving students the knowledge of the business of energy and exposure to effective management skills. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Global Energy Leadership, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Lenay Johnson 713-743-3726 Aug 15 April 1 Jan 10 Oct 1 N/A N/A Global Hospitality Business Conrad n. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management Link to Graduate Catalog MS program Hilton College offers an exclusive Master of Science in Global Hospitality Business degree, thanks to a first-of-its-kind partnership with the top hospitality programs in Europe and Asia-Ecole hôtelière de Lausanne and the School of Hotel and Tourism Management at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University. This truly global program provides select students with an extensive understanding of world markets and firsthand experience of local cultures across three continents. Students spend their first term at EHL in Switzerland, their second at PolyU in Hong Kong, and their third stateside at Hilton College. Designed in close collaboration with top players in the hotel, tourism and service industries, the Global Hospitality Master’s program offers unparalleled professional immersion through a unique and personalized capstone project, professional certifications and business field trips to global tourism hubs like New York, Paris and Macau. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Global Hospitality Business, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Jennifer Glickman 713-743-4790 April 30 April 30 November 1 November 1 N/A N/A Global Leadership Executive MBA Program C.T. Bauer College of Business Link to Graduate Catalog MBA Program Global Leadership is our original EMBA program. This program focuses on providing executives with the leadership skills necessary to assume top-level positions within organizations. Students learn real-world problem-solving skills, along with superior managerial skills that will help them gain a competitive edge in a global environment. Classes are offered on weeknights and weekends. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Executive MBA (Leadership) Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Taneika Young (713) 743-4701 June 1 April 1 N/A N/A N/A N/A Global Retailing College of Technology Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program Technology is bringing radical changes to retailing. The Master of Science (MS) in Global Retailing offers unmatched opportunities to learn new strategies and gain deeper insight into the worldwide dynamics and impact of multi-cultural consumer behavior, data analytics, profitability, financial models, and channel strategies. This program goes beyond teaching theory to practical applications. Executives in residence and UH faculty provide a stimulating experience where students will explore cross-cultural trends in retail management such as international product sourcing and distribution, applied retail market research and evaluation, and international trade regulations. The 30-hour program uniquely prepares innovative, agile retail marketers to successfully propel their careers and emerge as leaders of businesses throughout the global marketplace. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Global Retailing, MS/ Executive Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International COT Graduate Admissions 713-743-4100 July 31 April 1 Dec 15 Oct 1 N/A N/A H Health Communication College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program The Jack J. Valenti School of Communication at the University of Houston offers three Master’s degrees directed toward professional success in both academic and non-academic careers. The goal of the program is to produce graduate students who are able to move effectively into professional media positions, advance their current careers, teach in junior colleges or high schools, or enter into top doctoral programs. To date, our school has placed graduates into top-ranked Ph.D. programs as well as into non-academic positions in both public and private institutions. Regardless of the career goal, the graduate program broadens each student’s communication expertise through courses that improve conceptual, applied, and research skills - all of which are critical for successful careers in today’s information-oriented and changing global society. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Health Communication, MA Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Lindita Camaj Dec 15-Priority April 1-Final Jan 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Health Law UH Law Center Link to Graduate Catalog LL.M. Program The program, consistently ranked in the Top 10 by U.S. News & World Report, has been at the forefront of policy analysis related to legal aspects of healthcare and biotechnology. Students in the program increase their understanding of the dynamic nature of health law and policy through interaction with health care providers, researchers, and administrators on legal issues. Students in the program have included recent law school graduates and practitioners with varying years of experience. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Health Law, LL.M. Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Graduate Legal Studies 713-743-2890 June 1 April 15 Nov 1 N/A N/A N/A Higher Education College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog M.Ed. Program The Higher Education Program at University of Houston is grounded in a philosophical belief in the transformational nature of higher education as an institution of social change. We believe our nation’s future depends on our ability to make effective use of the enormous talent and resources represented by the diversity of our people and our ideas. The Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Higher Education prepares those who aspire to leadership positions in student affairs and other key administrative areas within a college or university. The Higher Education Program is grounded in a philosophical belief in the transformational nature of higher education as an institution of social change. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Tiffany Davis Higher Education, M.Ed. March 15 March 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Higher Education Leadership and Policy College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program This 66-hour doctoral program prepares students to conduct research and generate scholarship aimed at furthering a critical understanding of higher education and its role in society while providing service to our local, state, and national communities through the improvement of higher education, and in general the furthering of education for all people. To accomplish those broad aims, the Ph.D. curriculum in Higher Education provides students multi-disciplinary opportunities to develop specific competency in key areas. A solid framework for understanding educational challenges and opportunities; the inherently global nature of all educational experiences and their outcomes; and the critical contribution of rigorous research to adequate policy development; and the connected enterprise of increasing educational opportunity and success among schools, communities, and businesses. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Tiffany Davis Higher Education Leadership and Policy, PhD Jan 15 Jan 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A History College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program What Kinds of Skills Does a History major provide you? A knowledge-based view of the U.S. and world, including a systemic understanding of human institutions; strong analytical and critical thinking skills; excellent oral and written communication skills; experience using technology in research and presentation of findings; ability to work both independently and as part of a group; and the ability to both manage details and to see the big picture. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Daphyne Pitre History, MA Jan 15 Jan 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A History, PhD Jan 15 Jan 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Hospitality Administration Conrad n. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management Link to Graduate Program PhD Program The Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management at the University of Houston offers a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree program in Hospitality Administration that is designed to prepare students for the role of hospitality researchers and/or professors at a research oriented university or organization. The program provides a theoretical (conceptual) foundation, practical knowledge, research development, and critical thinking skills for hospitality administration. The Hospitality Administration PhD explores most food and beverage (e.g., catering), club (e.g., private clubs), convention and event planning, airline food and beverage service, cruise ship management, and all other tourism/hospitality disciplines. The topics include finance, marketing, accounting, human resources, service, and general management in relation to the hospitality industry. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Hospitality Administration, PhD Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Anthony Tello 713-743-3854 Jan 27 Jan 27 N/A N/A N/A N/A Hospitality Management Conrad n. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program The Master of Science in Hospitality Management (MS) degree program is designed to meet the hospitality industry’s need for individuals who have a variety of professional and academic skills and advanced specialized abilities necessary to excel in the increasingly demanding arena of hospitality management. Individuals who develop these advanced skills can seek and fill hospitality management positions at the corporate and operational levels and in the field of hospitality education. The MS degree is a two-year program that has been designed to develop effective and innovative hospitality industry managers and that attracts students from all over the world, bringing a multicultural quality to the learning environment. As a result, graduates of the Conrad N. Hilton College are serving in managerial positions worldwide with the finest firms in the hospitality industry, as well as teaching in higher education. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Hospitality Management, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Anthony Tello 713-743-3854 May 31 May 31 Dec 1 Oct 1 N/A N/A Hospitality Management (Executive option) Conrad n. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management Link to Graduate Catalog MHM Program The Executive Master in Hospitality Management (MHM) is a unique online program that will refine the professional and academic skills of its graduates, giving them a competitive edge to lead and excel in the demanding arena of hospitality management. The program also provides students at the executive level with a wealth of advanced industry knowledge and expands their management skills and professional leadership abilities. An integral component of the curriculum is immediate workplace application. Students are required to complete an industry-based research project that relates to current issues in a hospitality environment. The program is designed for anyone responsible for leading and managing in the hospitality industry, regardless of academic or professional background. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Hospitality Management (Executive option), MHM Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Maggie Padilla 713-743-1693 July 1 July 1 Dec 1 Dec 1 N/A N/A Human Nutrition College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog HN Program The nutrition program within the Department of Health and Human Performance offers a fully online non-thesis Master of Science (MS) degree in Nutrition (36 credits). The MS in Nutrition at the University of Houston provides a comprehensive course of study to prepare advanced practitioners in clinical nutrition, clinical management, and health & wellness. Faculty experts provide instruction on evidence-based medical nutrition therapies, advanced physical assessment skills, development and evaluation of educational programs, health, wellness, & fitness, and effective management skills for the clinical leader. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Human Nutrition, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Kevin Haubrick 713-743-1698 June 1 June 1 Nov 15 Nov 15 April 15 April 15 Human Resource Development College of Technology Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program The Master of Science (MS) degree in Human Resource Development (HRD) is designed for the professional who seeks to lead and execute talent development, talent management and performance strategies in diverse organizations. With a strong emphasis on data and value, students evaluate assumptions, clarify problems or opportunities, design and execute interventions (i.e. learning strategy, on boarding, process improvement, e-learning, performance evaluations etc.). Students evaluate the impact and value of these strategies through the lenses of change, learning and performance. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Human Resource Development Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International COT Graduate Admissions 713-743-4100 July 31 April 1 Dec 15 Oct 1 N/A N/A I Industrial Design Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture & Design Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program The graduate program offers a new perspective on creativity, product and system development, services and environment with an emphasis on interdisciplinary studies: design for health, design for sustainability, and design for the world community. Before the first term of graduate study, a personalized curriculum is developed to meet a student’s research topic and interdisciplinary study plan. In conjunction with the required courses, elective courses may be taken in the College of Architecture, Bauer College of Business, College of Engineering, College of Hotel Restaurant and Management or other departments and colleges of the university in order to complete a personalized program of study. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Industrial Design, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Trang Phan 713-743-3463 May 31 April 30 Oct 1 Oct 1 N/A N/A Industrial Engineering Cullen College of Engineering Link to Graduate Catalog MIE Program | Link to Graduate Catalog MSIE Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Master in Industrial Engineering (MIE) degree program is a coursework-based program that provides graduate-level education in the broad field of industrial engineering. The program offers graduate-level courses in operations research, statistics, manufacturing, quality and reliability engineering, project management, and systems engineering. Students in the MIE program do not need to complete a research thesis. The Master of Science in Industrial Engineering (MSIE) degree program is a thesis-based program that provides graduate-level education in the broad field of industrial engineering. The program offers graduate-level courses in operations research, statistics, manufacturing, quality and reliability engineering, project management, and systems engineering. Students in the MSIE program are required to complete a research thesis. The PhD degree program in Industrial Engineering provides doctoral students with rigorous academic preparation for positions in both academia and the private or public sector. In addition to required coursework, students conduct independent research that results in original scholarly work. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Industrial Engineering 713-743-4180 Industrial Engineering, MIE May 15) May 15 Dec 1 Oct 15 N/A N/A Industrial Engineering, MSIE May 30 April 31 Dec 1 Oct 15 N/A N/A Industrial Engineering, PhD Mar 15(*priority) May 15(regular) Mar 15(*priority) May 15(regular) Dec 1 Oct 15 N/A N/A Intellectual Property & Information Law UH Law Center Link to Graduate Catalog LL.M. Program Recognized as one of the Top Ten programs in the United States, the program provides an opportunity to study both traditional and emerging areas of intellectual property law (patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret) and information law (Internet, software, electronic commerce, and databases). Students in the program have included recent law school graduates and practitioners with varying years of experience. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Intellectual Property & Information Law, LL.M. Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Graduate Legal Studies 713-743-2890 June 1 April 15 Nov 1 N/A N/A N/A International Law UH Law Center Link to Graduate Catalog LL.M. Program The growth of the global marketplace places a premium on lawyers who understand the international implications of various public, private, and commercial activities. Students can concentration on public or private aspects of international law. Initiatives such as the Law Center’s Immigration Clinic and Center for U.S. and Mexican Law offer students hands-on, real life experience. Students in the program have included recent law school graduates and practitioners with varying years of experience. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact International Law, LL.M. Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Graduate Legal Studies 713-743-2890 June 1 April 15 Nov 1 N/A N/A N/A K Kinesiology College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Doctor of Philosophy in Kinesiology program currently focuses on four broad areas of kinesiology, namely motor control and learning, physiology, obesity studies, and sport and fitness administration. The Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Kinesiology is designed to provide doctoral level training to prepare a professional with the cognitive and research skills needed to be a productive scholar. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Kinesiology, PHD Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Lauren Till 713-743-5882 March 29 Marth 29 N/A N/A N/A N/A L Law UH Law Center Link to Graduate Catalog LL.M. Program The J.D. program is a 90 hour curriculum culminating in the Doctor of Jurisprudence degree. Students at UHLC have two options for pursuing their degree: full-time program or part-time program. The full-time program is designed for students who plan to devote nearly all of their time to the study of law while the part-time program is designed for students who plan to work during law school. Part-time students are limited to 10 credits per semester and students who take classes on a part-time basis will graduate in four years. Applicants must designate in their application which program they are applying to. Both programs begin in the fall semester, and spring/summer admission is not offered. Note that as a part-time student you will complete your first year in the evening following a required schedule. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Law, JD Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Law Admissions 713-743-2280 Mar 15 (full-time) May 15 (part-time) Mar 15 (full-time) May 15 (part-time) N/A N/A N/A N/A M Management and Leadership C.T. Bauer College of Business Link to Graduate Program PhD Program Bauer’s Ph.D. program in management and leadership gives students the tools for conducting advanced business research, with special expertise in topics such as corporate governance, the energy industry, human resource strategy, technology innovation, and value-based leadership, among many other areas. All graduate students, regardless of the specialty they’ve chosen, take core courses in strategic management, organizational behavior, human resources, and organizational theory. Both micro and macro areas of management are covered, with students challenged to conduct state-of-the-art research and to develop outstanding teaching skills. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Management and Leadership, PhD Jan 10 Jan 10 N/A N/A N/A N/A Dr. Tony (Dejun) Kong Management Information Systems C.T. Bauer College of Business Link to Graduate Program MS Program | Link to Graduate Program PhD Program Job growth for Management Information System (MIS) professionals continues to be the top career option in most forecasts (e.g., Bureau of Labor Statistics [6 of the top 20 careers for 2011]; College Board [4 of the top 10 for 2008-2018]; CareerInfonet [4 of the top 20 for 2020]). The Houston MIS job market is tops in the U.S. (CIO Magazine 7 best Cities to Find IT Jobs in 2011). Demand for MIS graduates is strong and expected to remain so over the next decade, due to the proliferation of digital devices and destinations. To meet this need, we anticipate demand for this program at Bauer College. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Lenay Johnson 713-743-3726 Management Information Systems, MS Aug 15 July 1 Jan 10 Nov 1 N/A N/A Management Information Systems, PhD Jan 10 Jan 10 N/A N/A N/A N/A Dr. Randolph Cooper Marketing C.T. Bauer College of Business Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program The Master of Science in marketing program is a 36-hour program that can be completed in 12 months of full-time study or 24 months of part-time study. It offers: Cutting-edge curriculum: Learn the latest in digital marketing, social media marketing, customer relationship management and more. Customized learning: Select electives that build deep knowledge in areas such as Digital, Analytics, Product Management, Sales Leadership and Entrepreneurship & Technology. Connections to the business community: Opportunities and encouragement to do real-life projects with Houston’s business community. World-class faculty: The Chronicle of Higher Education recently ranked Bauer #9 among leading research universities for scholarly productivity in marketing, and our executive faculty have had the job you want. Prize-winning programs in digital marketing, selling and sales management, and entrepreneurship. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Marketing, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Lenay Johnson 713-743-3726 Aug 15 July 1 Jan 1 Nov 1 N/A N/A Marketing and Entrepreneurship C.T. Bauer College of Business Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Marketing Ph.D. program is a research-intensive full-time course of study designed to place graduates in marketing faculty positions at research-oriented universities. The four to five-year Ph.D. program involves forty-two credit hours of coursework plus intensive research activity, including working on your dissertation and writing papers for publication in major refereed academic journals such as Journal of Marketing Research, Journal of Consumer Research, Journal of Marketing, Marketing Science, and Management Science. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Marketing and Entrepreneurship, PhD Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International MARK - Dr. Ye Hu Jan 10 Jan 10 N/A N/A N/A N/A Mass Communication College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program The Jack J. Valenti School of Communication at the University of Houston offers three Master’s degrees directed toward professional success in both academic and non-academic careers. The goal of the program is to produce graduate students who are able to move effectively into professional media positions, advance their current careers, teach in junior colleges or high schools, or enter into top doctoral programs. To date, our school has placed graduates into top-ranked Ph.D. programs as well as into non-academic positions in both public and private institutions. Regardless of the career goal, the graduate program broadens each student’s communication expertise through courses that improve conceptual, applied, and research skills - all of which are critical for successful careers in today’s information-oriented and changing global society. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Mass Communication, MA Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Lindita Camaj Dec 15-Priority April 1-Final Jan 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Materials Engineering Cullen College of Engineering Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Materials Science and Engineering Program at the University of Houston is an interdisciplinary program with faculty from Mechanical, Chemical and Electrical Engineering Departments. In addition, significant collaboration occurs with the materials faculty in the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics. The principal objectives of the materials science and engineering program may be summarized as follows: to study the mechanical, optical, electrical and electronic behavior of engineering and engineered materials used in all engineering applications. The specific areas covered by this program range from metallic alloys, polymers, ceramics and composites for advanced mechanical/aerospace engineering applications to thin films and coatings for electronics and superconducting ceramics for energy-related applications. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Chrisdolyn Dawson 713-743-9257 Materials Engineering, MS Mar 15(*priority) May 15(regular) Mar 15(*priority) May 15(regular) Oct 15 Oct 15 N/A N/A Materials Engineering, PhD Mar 15(*priority) May 15(regular) Mar 15(*priority) May 15(regular) Oct 15 Oct 15 N/A N/A Mathematics College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program | Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program| Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The UH Department of Mathematics awards both Masters and Doctoral degrees for work in a variety of areas of pure and applied mathematics. Currently around 150 graduate students are enrolled each regular semester. The students are diverse with more than 40 being international students from over twelve different nationalities. About 80 students each semester are supported by the department as teaching assistants, tutors, graders or in similar positions. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Neha Valji 713-743-3517 Mathematics, MA Aug 1 N/A Nov 1 N/A April 1 N/A Mathematics, MS July 1 July 1 Nov 1 Nov 1 April 1 N/A Mathematics, PhD April 1 May 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 N/A N/A Measurement, Quantitative Methods & Learning Sciences College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Doctor of Philosophy in Measurement, Quantitative Methods, and Learning Sciences prepares students for employment as faculty members at colleges and universities. Graduates also find employment in areas such as directors of educational components of health care institutions and social service agencies. Typically, these students develop an individually tailored Ph.D. program which emphasizes theory and research in one or more areas related to learning and development, special populations, higher education, health education and/or measurement and statistics. Originally named the Ph.D. Educational Psychology and Individual Differences, the Ph.D. program in Measurement, Quantitative Methods, & Learning Sciences continues to represent core elements of the definition of Educational Psychology, which includes “Instruction in learning theory, human growth and development, and research methods, and psychological evaluations” (according to IPEDS [Integrated Post-secondary Education Data System]), but enhances the employment prospects of program graduates. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Weihua Fan Measurement, Quantitative Methods, & Learning Sciences Dec 1 Dec 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Mechanical Engineering Cullen College of Engineering Link to Graduate Catalog MME Program | Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Graduate Program in Mechanical Engineering provides our students with an educational experience grounded in the engineering sciences and focused on producing a professional capable of systematically applying those sciences to solve real-world problems. Our program encompasses advanced study and research in the areas of applied mechanics, control of dynamical systems, materials science, thermal and fluid sciences, and biomedical engineering. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International ME Academic Advisor 713-743-4500 Mechanical Engineering, MME May 15 May 15 Feb 16 Feb 16 N/A N/A Mechanical Engineering, MS May 15 Mar 15 Feb 16 Oct 15 N/A N/A Mechanical Engineering, PhD Mar 15 May 15 Oct 15 Feb 16 N/A N/A Mechanical Engineering Technology College of Technology Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program The Mechanical Engineering Technology emphasis builds upon our recognized and ABET accredited mechanical baccalaureate degrees and related fields providing students with highly developed expertise in design and analysis of mechanical systems. This degree provides an integrated multi-disciplinary program designed to prepare individuals with practical and theoretical skills in Technology with a focus on applied Mechanical Engineering. This relationship facilitates the translation of research findings to meet current industry needs. With state-of-the-art teaching and research laboratories, the M.S. degree offers courses and cutting-edge research experiences in several applied areas including, instrumentation and measurement, biomedical systems, advanced materials design, manufacturing, systems integration, oil and gas applications, and energy. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Mechanical Engineering Technology, MS Domestic Interna\tional Domestic International Domestic International COT Graduate Admissions 713-743-4100 July 31 April 1 Dec 15 Oct 1 N/A N/A Music Moores School of Music Link to Graduate Catalog MM Program | Link to Graduate Catalog DMA Program The Moores School of Music is a full member of the National Association of Schools of Music and a member of the Texas Association of Music Schools. The school offers the Master of Music and Doctor of Musical Arts degrees, as well as a non-degree professional Certificate in Music Performance. Students majoring in other disciplines may elect courses in music and may participate in the ensembles. Instruction in applied music will be provided for students majoring in other departments at the University of Houston as long as teaching time and practice facilities are available after the requirements for music majors are met. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Kelly Ibarra 713-743-5934 Music, MM March 15 March 15 Oct 15 Oct 15 N/A N/A Music, DMA March 15 March 15 Oct 15 Oct 15 N/A N/A N Network Communications College of Technology Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program The Master of Science (MS) in Engineering Technology - Network Communications Track may be completed under the thesis option or project option. This program builds upon Technology Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (TAC-ABET)-accredited baccalaureate degree programs in the fields of computer, electronic or electrical engineering technology, and related fields. The program provides an advanced knowledge of communication between and within computer networks, including data processing in the network environment, network operations software and operating systems, and communication systems. The program will emphasize the following topics: network security, network management, and project management. Graduates are prepared to be advanced level technologists in computer applications in industry and technology instructors for educational institutions offering baccalaureate and associate degree programs. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Network Communications, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International COT Graduate Admissions 713-743-4100 July 31 April 1 Dec 15 Oct 1 N/A N/A Nursing College of Nursing Link to Graduate Catalog MSN Program The University Of Houston College Of Nursing offers upper level and graduate nursing education primarily to Fort Bend County, Harris, and surrounding counties in Texas. Undergraduate tracks include the RN-BSN for registered nurses who wish to pursue a baccalaureate degree in nursing, and the Second Degree BSN for individuals who have completed a university degree and wish to become a nurse. The Master of Science in Nursing offers tracks in nursing education, nursing administration, and family nurse practitioner. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Nursing, MSN Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Nursing Advisor 832-842-8200 June 30 June 30 N/A N/A N/A N/A O Optometry College of Optometry Link to Graduate Catalog OD Program The College of Optometry is one of the university’s thirteen colleges. Established in 1952, the college moved in 1976 to a newbuilding, now named the J. Davis Armistead Building. In 2013, the College expanded into the Health and Biomedical Building 1 which was built adjacent to, and connected with the Armistead building, making the optometric facility one of the most modern in the world. Approximately, one hundred and five students are admitted into the professional optometric program each year from the United States and other countries. The college not only educates students planning to practice optometry, but also offers Master of Science and Doctor of Philosophy degree programs in physiological optics/vision science for students planning careers in teaching and research. Students who have a degree in biological or physical science or biomedical engineering with a special interest in vision or who are graduates of an optometry school or other professional health program may want to consider entering the graduate program. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Optometry, OD Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International OD Grad Admissions 713-743-1847 Mar 30 Mar 30 N/A N/A N/A N/A Online Management and Leadership CT Bauer College of Business Offered exclusively online, Bauer’s Master of Science in Management & Leadership degree is designed specifically to improve the marketability of undergraduates who have earned a non-business degree. This 36-hour online program will provide students with a foundation in management and business skills to build their competitive advantage in today’s ever-changing workspace Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Online Management & Leadership, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Lenay Johnson 713-743-3726 June 1 April 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 N/A N/A P Petroleum Engineering Cullen College of Engineering Link to Graduate Catalog MPETE Program | Link to Graduate Catalog MSPETE Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The mission of the University Of Houston Department Of Petroleum Engineering is to educate students to become highly qualified petroleum engineers, to conduct innovative research in petroleum engineering and related interdisciplinary areas, and provide service to the profession and to society. Petroleum Engineering graduates are prepared to address the challenges of the world’s energy needs responsibly, to exceed the evolving expectations of employers in the petroleum and energy industries, to sustain industry-leading skills and to be leaders in industry, academia, and government. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Anne Sturm 832-842-4848 Trina Johnson 832-842-4838 Petroleum Engineering, MPETE April 8 April 8 Feb 16 Feb 16 N/A N/A Petroleum Engineering, MSPETE April 8 April 8 Feb 16 Feb 16 N/A N/A Petroleum Engineering, PhD April 8 April 8 N/A N/A N/A N/A Pharmaceutical Health Outcomes and Policy College of Pharmacy Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Pharmaceutical Health Outcomes and Policy doctoral degree program at the University of Houston College of Pharmacy offers a learning and research environment that combines the collaborative opportunities of the Texas Medical Center’s world-class healthcare and scientific community with the academic resources and award-winning faculty at Houston’s only Carnegie Institute-designated Tier One public research university. Pharmaceutical Health Outcomes and Policy (PHOP) consists of pharmaceutical practice and policy research - a multidisciplinary field of scientific investigation that examines cost, access, and quality of pharmaceutical care from clinical, socio-behavioral, economic, organizational and technological perspectives. Traditional and innovative areas of pharmaceutical health outcomes research include pharmacoepidemiology, pharmacoeconomics, comparative effectiveness research, patient-centered outcomes research, and translational research. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Pharmaceutical Health Outcomes and Policy, PhD Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Melissa Nieto 713-743-7725 Jan 3 Jan 3 N/A N/A N/A N/A Pharmaceutics College of Pharmacy Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree programs in Pharmaceutics emphasizes independent research, didactic courses and in-depth study of a pharmaceutical problem in each student’s chosen research specialty. This program enables students to master the skills necessary for careers in academia, industry and government. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Pharmaceutics, PhD Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Melissa Nieto 713-743-7725 Jan 3 Jan 3 N/A N/A N/A N/A Pharmacology College of Pharmacy Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree programs in Pharmacology and Pharmacology/Medicinal Chemistry emphasizes independent research, didactic courses and in-depth study of research problems in each student’s chosen research specialty. This program enables students to master the skills necessary for careers in academia, industry and government. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Pharmacology, PhD Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Melissa Nieto 713-743-7725 Jan 26 Jan 3 N/A N/A N/A N/A Pharmacy Leadership & Administration College of Pharmacy Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program Taking full advantage of the resources of the world’s largest medical center, Texas Medical Center, the 24-month Houston Program with MS in Pharmacy Leadership and Administration offers unique learning, teaching and collaboration opportunities to train the next generation of pharmacy leaders. The University Of Houston College Of Pharmacy offers a Master of Science in Pharmacy Leadership and Administration, with PGY1 and PGY2 Health-System Pharmacy Administration (HSPA) residency programs from seven leading Texas Medical Center institutions. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Pharmacy Leadership & Administration, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Melissa Nieto 713-743-7725 Jan 3 Jan 3 N/A N/A N/A N/A Philosophy College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program The UH Philosophy M.A. program has consistently been rated among the top M.A. programs in the country in the Philosophical Gourmet Report and is noted in the APA grad guide as having special strengths in Cognitive Science, History of Philosophy, Ethics, and Aesthetics. Our program is designed to prepare students for the best Ph.D. programs in the country. We offer our students a variety of placement services (provided by a faculty placement coordinator--currently Dr. Justin Coates), which includes a writing sample review and consultation, coordinated organization of recommendation letters, and advice about programs that would provide the best fit given a student’s interests. With these placement services, our students regularly go on to top programs such as Princeton, Rutgers, Cornell, UCLA, UCSD, and Harvard. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Joshua Weisberg Philosophy, MA May 1 May 1 N/A N/A N/A N/A Physics College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Department of Physics at the University of Houston has 36 ranked faculty members, including eight distinguished or chaired professors. Faculty members have been recognized on the national and international level. Among the faculty ranks is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Faculty members have received awards such as the National Medal of Science, the Freedoms Foundation Award, the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Award, the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation Senior Scientist Award, the Materials Research Society Von Hippel Award, and the Max Planck Research Award. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Naomi Haynes 713-743-3523 Physics, MS June 30 May 31 N/A N/A N/A N/A Physics, PhD June 30 May 31 N/A N/A N/A N/A Physiological Optics College of Optometry Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The Graduate Program in Physiological Optics/Vision Science confers an MS and/or PhD degree and prepares students to embark on a career in teaching and/or research in the basic or clinical science of vision. Students are accepted into the program with a minimum of a BS degree (or the equivalent) from a variety of fields such as optometry, physiological optics, vision sciences, medicine, ophthalmology, structural and functional biosciences, neuroscience, psychology, optics, bioengineering, and biophysics. The need for new knowledge in the vision sciences is great, and teaching and research opportunities are numerous in a spectrum of academic, industrial, and professional settings. Although the program has sufficient structure to provide a broad base of scientific knowledge about vision systems, it is at the same time appropriately flexible to permit students to develop expertise in areas of special interest. Students will join the labs of faculty mentors who are studying normal and abnormal visual processes, diseases and disorders of the eye, visual optics, the visual pathways, eye movement control systems, and the development of treatments to prevent loss of vision using a variety of approaches ranging from molecular and cellular, to behavioral and optical. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International PHOP GradAdmissions 713-743-1885 Physiological Optics, MS March 1 March 1 Nov 1 Nov 1 N/A N/A Physiological Optics, PhD March 1 March 1 N/A N/A N/A N/A Political Science College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The department offers programs of study leading to the Master of Arts degree in political science and the Master of Arts degree in public administration. For more information about the Master of Arts degree in public administration, refer to the public administration program in this section of the catalog. Course offerings in political science cover the following general topics: American politics, public policy, public administration, public law, political theory, research methods, and comparative politics. The graduate program of the Department of Political Science provides advanced training in the discipline of political science to students whose career goals include college teaching and advanced research. The department is organized into six major subfields: American politics, comparative politics, political theory, quantitative methods, public policy, and public law. Ph.D. Students take comprehensive exams in a major and two minor subfields of their choice. All Ph.D. students must test in American politics. The department has a long history of being quantitatively oriented, and many non-theory students test in quantitative methods. Recent graduates of the Ph.D. program have obtained teaching positions at colleges and universities throughout the U.S. and abroad. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Political Science, MA Feb 15 Feb 15 Oct 15 Oct 15 N/A N/A Dr. Scott Basinger 713-743-3911 Political Science, PhD Feb 15 Feb 15 Oct 15 Oct 15 N/A N/A Professional Leadership - Health Science Education College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog Ed.D Program The Executive Doctor of Education Degree (Ed.D.) in Professional Leadership with an Emphasis in Health Science Education prepares students for professional and administrative leadership positions in a variety of academic healthcare settings. The program provides intensive research and applied skills for students grappling with real-world educational needs and services in medicine, dentistry, nursing and other health-related areas. The design of the program emphasizes exploration, problem-solving and student collaboration in a variety of courses and research activities. A practical internship or Laboratory of Practice provides students with an avenue to apply the specifics of these problems to their course of study and research projects. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Robert Hausmann Health Science Educator N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Professional Leadership - K-12 Administration College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog Ed.D Program The EdD in Professional Leadership is a 51-credit hour program providing intensive research and applied skills for students grappling with real-world concerns in education. Students bring the most pressing concerns experienced by the educational community to each course. A Laboratory of Practice and Doctoral Thesis provide students an avenue to apply the specifics of these problems to their other courses and their research. Students complete requirement for the Texas Examinations of Educator Standards (TExES) Superintendent (195) Certification. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Bradley Davis K-12 Administration April 16 April 16 N/A N/A N/A N/A Professional Leadership - Literacy Education College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog Ed.D Program The Executive EdD in Professional Leadership-Literacy Education is a 51-hour doctoral program focusing on research and applied skills for educators grappling with current issues in education in urban contexts. The program is designed to facilitate the knowledge, skills and dispositions needed for professional and instructional leadership in urban schools, community organizations, museums and related educational institutions. The program is designed as a cohort model with online, hybrid and flipped courses. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Laveria Hutchison Literacy Education June 1 April 1 N/A N/A N/A N/A Professional Leadership - Mathematics Education College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog Ed.D Program The EdD in Professional Leadership, with an emphasis in mathematics education, is a 51-hour program at University of Houston Sugarland providing research and applied skills for educators grappling with current issues in urban settings. The program is designed to facilitate the knowledge, skills and dispositions needed for instructional leadership in curriculum and instruction in urban schools, community organizations, museums and related educational institutions. The intent of the program is for graduates of this program to remain in educational settings as instructional leaders. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Justin T Burris Math Education N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Professional Leadership - Social Studies/Social Education College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog Ed.D Program The Executive EdD in Professional Leadership-Social Studies/Social Education is a 51-hour doctoral program focusing on research and applied skills for educators grappling with current issues in education in urban contexts. The program is designed to facilitate the knowledge, skills and dispositions needed for professional and instructional leadership in urban schools, community organizations, museums and related educational institutions. The program is designed as a cohort model with online, hybrid and flipped courses. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Cameron White Social Education N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Professional Leadership - Special Populations College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog Ed.D Program The EdD in Professional Leadership Special Populations is a 51-credit hour program providing intensive research and applied skills for students grappling with real-world concerns in education. Students bring the most pressing challenges experienced by the educational community to each course. A Laboratory of Practice and Doctoral Thesis provide students an avenue to apply the specifics of these problems to their other courses, their research, and provide support to their community. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Jacqueline Hawkins Professional Leadership - Special Populations, Ed.D N/A N/A N/A N/A May 1 April 1 Professional Pharmacy College of Pharmacy Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program Today’s pharmacists don’t simply count pills - they’re actively involved in the creation, evaluation and delivery of complex pharmaceuticals and therapeutics that enhance patient health. UH College of Pharmacy’s Doctorate of Pharmacy (PharmD) program is a four-year professional program that prepares individuals for a variety of areas within the pharmacy profession. In collaboration with its fellow Texas Medical Center institutions and elsewhere, the college offers a range of clinical research opportunities and practice experiences (APPEs) in oncology, infectious disease, pediatrics, women’s health, critical care, neurology, nuclear pharmacy and veterinary pharmacy. UH PharmD students also can pursue a variety of unique in-state and out-of-state experiential opportunities, including the FDA, CDC, Indian Health Service in Alaska and New Mexico. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Professional Pharmacy, PharmD Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Morgan Ely 713-743-1291 Sep 4(Early) Jan 7 (Regular) Sep 4(Early) Jan 7 (Regular) N/A N/A N/A N/A Psychology College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program Welcome to the Department of Psychology! We bring the best of psychological theory, techniques and research methods to the solution of real world problems. Our goal is to solve important human problems and to use these problems as critical vehicles for dynamic teaching and the enhancement of psychological theory and practice. A major objective of our teaching is to empower our students to use psychological knowledge for the solution of scientific, social and business problems. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Linda Canales 713-743-8395 Psychology, Clinical Dec 1 Dec 1 N/A N/A N/A N/A Psychology, Developmental Dec 15 Dec 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Psychology, Industrial & Organizational Dec 1 Dec 1 N/A N/A N/A N/A Psychology, Social Dec 1 Dec 1 N/A N/A N/A N/A Public Administration College of Liberal Arts & Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog MPA Program The Master of Public Administration Program (MPA) provides higher levels of training and education for pre-service and in-service public managers, and public officials to address major public policy issues in a metropolitan scenario. Visit the Master of Public Administration Program website. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Public Administration, MPA Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Toshiyuki Yuasa June 15 Feb 15 Oct 30 Oct 1 N/A N/A Public Policy Hobby School of Public Affairs Link to Graduate Catalog MPP Program The Master of Public Policy prepares students to complete advanced analysis in public, private, and nonprofit sectors with an emphasis on developing higher-level quantitative and ethical decision-making skills to solve complex policy issues and problems. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Public Policy, MPP Graduate Certificates Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Scott Mason 713-743-5572 August 1 June 15 December 1 November 1 N/A N/A Public Relations College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program The Jack J. Valenti School of Communication at the University of Houston offers three Master’s degrees directed toward professional success in both academic and non-academic careers. The goal of the program is to produce graduate students who are able to move effectively into professional media positions, advance their current careers, teach in junior colleges or high schools, or enter into top doctoral programs. To date, our school has placed graduates into top-ranked Ph.D. programs as well as into non-academic positions in both public and private institutions. Regardless of the career goal, the graduate program broadens each student’s communication expertise through courses that improve conceptual, applied, and research skills - all of which are critical for successful careers in today’s information-oriented and changing global society. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Public Relations, MA Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Lindita Camaj Dec 1-Priority April 1 Jan 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A S School Psychology College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program Accredited by the American Psychological Association and adhering to a scientist-practitioner training model, the School Psychology program develops professional school psychologists. Graduates engage in applied research and apply critical analysis and inquiry to identify, select, implement, and evaluate evidence-based practices with sensitivity to cultural and linguistic considerations, and in consideration of diverse client preferences. Embedded throughout the training experience, sensitivity to diversity issues becomes an essential tool, in part because the UH is one of the most culturally and linguistically diverse research institutions in the nation. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Jorge Gonzalez School Psychology Ph.D Dec 1 Dec 1 N/A N/A N/A N/A Social Work Graduate College of Social Work Link to Graduate Catalog MSW Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program Graduates of the University of Houston’s Graduate College of Social Work (GCSW) impact the community as they address the innumerable complex challenges currently facing our nation. The GCSW’s vision of achieving social, racial, economic, and political justice, local to global informs the curriculum providing a solid framework to develop social workers who are staunch advocates who urge and instruct multiple institutions - from grassroots organizations to powerful corporations - to achieve social justice and support vulnerable populations. They lay and continue to reinforce the foundations of service, self-worth and the undeniable value of positive human relationships. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Anna Johnson Trenadia Caxton-Martins 713-743-8075 Social Work, MSW March 15 March 15 Oct 1 (Advanced Standard Only) Oct 1 (Advanced Standard Only) N/A N/A Social Work, PhD Jan 15 Jan 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Sociology College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program The Department of Sociology at the University of Houston offers an MA in sociology with graduate training directed towards professional career success in both academic and non-academic fields. The Sociology department offers both a thesis track and an applied internship track for the Master’s degree. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Sociology, MA Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Stella Grigorian April 15 April 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 N/A N/A Space Architecture Cullen College of Engineering Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program The Sasakawa International Center for Space Architecture (SICSA) is a unique interdisciplinary research, design and teaching academic center that supports the world’s only Master of Science (MS) degree in Space Architecture. In 2015 The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board approved changing the degree to a master of science with a STEM — science, technology, engineering and math — designation. We are academic leaders in the field of space architecture and are also active in the planning and designing of facilities for extreme environments on Earth. These include ocean facilities, polar research stations and human disaster accommodations. Graduates will also conduct trade studies and learn about operational factors which contribute to the design, such as logistics, orbital mechanics, transportation cost trades, etc. Our collaborators have included N/ASA, The Boeing Company, Oceaneering, and the Houston Airport System/Houston Spaceport. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Space Architecture, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Olga Bannova 713-743-2352 May 15 May 15 Dec 1 Nov 1 N/A N/A Spanish College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program The graduate program offers both Doctoral and Master's programs in the fields of Hispanic Literature and Linguistics. These degrees are designed to help students who wish to pursue careers in college teaching and advanced university level research. In addition to offering Ph.D. with a specialization in Literature or Linguistics, the program also offers several variations of a Master's degree. The department offers the traditional M.A.; and an M.A. in Salamanca, designed for elementary and secondary school teachers. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr.Paola Arboleda-Rios 713-743-3797 Hispanic Studies, Spanish, MA July 15 June 16 Dec 1 Dec 1 N/A N/A Hispanic Studies, Spanish, PhD Feb 15 Feb 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Special Populations College of Education Link to Graduate Catalog M.Ed. Program The Special Populations Master’s Program prepares professionals for the high-needs field of Special Education. Graduates find abundant opportunities for challenging and rewarding careers. The Executive EdD in Professional Leadership-Special Populations prepares graduates for Professional and Instructional Leadership positions in a variety of settings and provides them with the tools to meet the needs of ALL students. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Kristen Hassett Special Populations, M.Ed. May 1 April 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 N/A N/A Sport and Fitness Administration College of Liberal Arts & Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program The Sport and Fitness Administration Program (SFAP) graduate degree provides its students with a comprehensive program of study which integrates theoretical concepts and practical application of management strategies. Cognizant of the diverse demands of the sport/fitness industry and the economic projections within the field, the SFAP is well positioned to address the burgeoning needs of a sport conscious society. Its strategic location in the city of Houston and state of Texas affords students a wealth of opportunities. Graduates of the program seek placement in a variety of sport and fitness settings including golf country clubs, professional sports franchises, television, university athletic programs, municipal recreation programs, and corporate wellness programs. Emerging topical issues within the program will include metropolitan revitalization through sport and urban fitness. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Sport and Fitness Administration, MA Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Lauren Till 713-743-5882 June 1 April 15 Nov 15 Oct 1 Mar 1 Jan 15 Statistics & Data Science College of Natural Science and Mathematics Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program The Master of Science in Statistics and Data Science, offered by the Department of Mathematics, provides students with training in the statistical analysis of data sets, as well as in state of the art data mining techniques. The program includes computational implementations on real data sets and learning key theoretical concepts. The program provides students with necessary skills required for professional positions in data analysis and statistics. Students will be equipped for employment in biomedical fields and health institutions, in oil and gas research and development, in financial and actuarial sectors, and related areas. Recent graduates from our U of H applied mathematics MS and PhD programs who acquired similar skills are currently employed in the banking, biomedical, energy, insurance and financial industries, or teach in high schools and community colleges. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Statistics & Data Science, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Callista Brown 713-743-5617 June 5 June 5 N/A N/A N/A Na Studio Art Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts Link to Graduate Catalog MFA Program Many art schools are engaged in a national debate on how best to educate emerging artists. Many have devised programs that take certain positions relative to current innovations in the field, or in anticipation of future trends. At the University Of Houston School Of Art, we reframed that discussion by focusing not on the contextual fields of practice, but rather on you – the practitioner. You are the only stable and absolutely central component in the equation. The only question worth asking is not how you might fit into our program, but rather how we might fit into yours. This question needs asking of each student who enters our MFA program, and each answer will necessarily be as unique as each individual. We fit into “your program” by devising programs that are flexible and dynamic and by creating the environments that help you to broaden and deepen your investigations. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Studio Art, MFA Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Kelly Ibarra 713-743-5934 Jan 15 (Priority) May 15 (Final) Jan 15 (Priority) May 15 (Final) N/A N/A N/A N/A Subsea Engineering Cullen College of Engineering Link to Graduate Catalog MSSE Program Welcome to the nation’s first Subsea Engineering Graduate Program with the Master of Science in Subsea Engineering located in the world’s oil and gas capital of Houston, Texas! In partnership with the world’s leading energy engineering companies, the University of Houston has created a relevant 21st-century energy engineering education, comprised of classroom lectures and hands-on software lessons for subsea systems design. Our program is the next step in an international outreach effort resulting in UH emerging as the Energy University. Today, UH offers a seamless curriculum comprised of oil and gas exploration, petroleum engineering through production, and petroleum refining. The master’s program is offered both in the classroom and online which allows for international, domestic and the full-time working professionals to take part in the program and pursue their education in subsea engineering. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Subsea Engineering, MSSE Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International ME Academic Advisor 713-743-4500 Mar 15(*priority) May 15(regular) Mar 15(*priority) May 15(regular) Oct 15 Oct 15 N/A N/A Supply Chain and Logistics Technology College of Technology Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program The Master of Science in Supply Chain and Logistics Technology (SCLT) is designed for the professional who seeks advanced preparation in logistics, inventory management, transportation, sales, and procurement. Required courses focus on the development of project management skills that are designed to prepare graduates for responsible leadership roles in technology and information-based workplaces. Course topics in the SCLT area of emphasis include logistics and transportation strategies, supply chain operations measurement and evaluation, global logistics and transportation, and procurement strategies. Students also complete six additional hours of elective coursework relevant to the area of emphasis and the research requirements. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Supply Chain and Logistics Technology, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International COT Graduate Admissions 713-743-4100 July 31 April 1 Dec 15 Oct 1 N/A N/A Supply Chain Management C.T. Bauer College of Business Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program | Link to Graduate Catalog PhD Program Supply Chain Management is a critical function that allows businesses to build competitive infrastructures, leveraging their networks to compete in the global marketplace. With global operations becoming more complex, companies in manufacturing, retail and technology – and the consulting firms that service them – are scrambling to hire people with supply chain expertise and enhance the skills of current employees. But these experts and training opportunities are hard to come by. The Bauer College of Business has assembled a nationally renowned faculty in supply chain management to help provide business professionals with an opportunity to advance their careers by enhancing their professional knowledge and obtaining an advanced professional credential in the field of SCM. The program provides a focused course of study that will increase the understanding of the theory and practice of supply chain management. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Lenay Johnson 713-743-3726 David Peng Supply Chain Management, MS Aug 15 July 1 Nov 1 Oct 1 N/A N/A Business Administration: Supply Chain Management, PhD Jan 10 Jan 10 N/A N/A N/A N/A T Tax Law UH Law Center Link to Graduate Catalog LL.M. Program The program focuses on helping lawyers identify issues and plan solutions to tax problems and hone the skills needed to assimilate new tax rules into their tax practice. The program emphasizes both professional responsibility and a thorough understanding of the tax system and how it affects individual, nonprofit, commercial and financial affairs. Students in the program have included recent law school graduates and practitioners with varying years of experience. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Tax Law. LL.M. Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Graduate Legal Studies 713-743-2890 June 1 April 15 Nov 1 N/A N/A N/A Technology Project Management College of Technology Link to Graduate Catalog MS Program The degree plan for a Master of Science (MS) in Technology Project Management is designed specifically to prepare individuals with undergraduate degrees in technology disciplines for responsible leadership roles in the technology-based and professional workplaces. The core courses provide in-depth preparation in project management skills. Being able to plan and manage technology projects is an increasingly important skill for those with a technical background. The directed area of study allows graduate students the opportunity to focus in an area of specialization. Many opportunities await the Technology Project Management graduate. Students who graduate with a Master of Science in Technology Project Management are prepared to fill vital management and supervisory roles in a wide range of industries. Career options will vary depending on the chosen area of emphasis. Students in the program have reported that they have been able to apply the skills they learn across wide variety of occupations including: Project Manager, Team Lead, Analyst, Process Engineer, Quality Manager, Information Services Manager, Logistics Manager, Finance Manager, Senior Sourcing Specialist, Engagement Manager, Operations Management and Business Development Manager. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Technology Project Management, MS Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International COT Graduate Admissions 713-743-4100 July 31 April 1 Dec 15 Oct 1 N/A N/A Theatre–Acting School of Theatre and Dance Link to Graduate Catalog MFA Program The MFA Professional Actor Training Program challenges talent and hones skills through a progressive arc of training in rigorous studio work and in full productions; professional connections are forged through auditions for work with Shakespeare festivals and other regional theatre. The combination of rigorous studio training, diverse production experience, and professional networking will provide a launch for a career like no other program in the country. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Theatre- Acting Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Prof. Jack Young 713-743-0705 May 15 May 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Theatre –Design & Technology School of Theatre and Dance Link to Graduate Catalog MFA Program Design students specialize and train in one or more discipline: scenic design, costume design or lighting design. All students enter the program together, and remain together for three years. Only one class is trained at a time. Collaboration is the heart and soul of the program. Students will develop a solid working knowledge of the elements and principles of their discipline in order to create a close collaborative working environment. In addition to the design and collaboration classes, the curriculum includes the study of dramaturgy, literature and theatre history. Upon successful completion of the program, a UH graduate will be exceptionally well suited and qualified for a career in the theatre and the related entertainment industry. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Theatre- Design Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Prof. Kevin Rigdon 713-743-2816 May 15 May 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Theatre Studies School of Theatre and Dance Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program The M.A. degree program in Theatre Studies at UH is recommended for individuals with a strong interest in the scholarly aspects of theatre—particularly dramaturgy, theatre history, and performance studies. The program is ideal for students interested in going on to pursue the Ph.D. or working as a professional dramaturg. A select number of students are admitted to the M.A. program each year, ensuring a high degree of individual contact with faculty. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Theatre Studies Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Keith Byron Kirk 713-743-1146 May 15 May 15 N/A N/A N/A N/A Theatre –Summer MA for Educators School of Theatre and Dance Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program Our summer MA program is an affordable and convenient path for busy theatre educators to accomplish a graduate degree in three short summer sessions .Twelve theatre educators will be accepted this summer to begin their three year path toward a Master of Arts in Theatre. Classes will begin at 8:45am the Monday of the first week in July and will run Monday through Thursday, 9am-9pm for three and a half weeks. Students will have long weekends to study and to explore the exciting Arts Community that Houston has to offer. The last 5 days of class will be spent off campus taking a class designed for theatre educators and seeing productions. Coursework in the summer MA is developed keeping in mind that you want to further develop your theatre programs and your classes. Our faculty is eager for the opportunity to teach working professional theatre educators. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Theatre Studies Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Dr. Keith Byron Kirk 713-743-1146 N/A N/A N/A N/A May 15 May 15 U U.S. Law UH Law Center Link to Graduate Catalog LL.M. Program This program is for lawyers who earned their degree outside of the United States. It is a general course in which student, with their faculty, advisor, select courses that meet their personal or professional goals, such as taking a bar examination. Students can focus their students on a specific area of the law or pursue a more general course of study. Students in the program have included recent law school graduates and practitioners with varying years of experience. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact U.S. Law, LL.M. Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Graduate Legal Studies 713-743-2890 June 1 April 15 Nov 1 N/A N/A N/A W World Cultures & Literature College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Link to Graduate Catalog MA Program The Department of Modern and Classical Languages offers the M.A. In World Cultures and Literatures, the Bachelor of Arts degree in Chinese Studies, French, Italian Studies, and World Cultures and Literature (with concentrations in Ancient Studies, German Studies, Francophone Cultures Studies, Global Cinema Studies, Global Modernity Studies, and Middle Eastern Studies), a minor in Jewish Studies, a minor in India Studies, as well as minors and/or language instruction in thirteen languages. Program Fall Deadline Spring Deadline Summer Deadline Contact Domestic International Domestic International Domestic International Prof. Alessandro Carrera 713-743-3069 World Cultures & Literature, MA June 1 May 20 Nov 8 Oct 1 N/A N/A 4302 University Dr, Rm 102 Houston, TX 77204-2012 (713) 743-5284 A - Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Maps Careers at UH Directory Emergency Information Get Help Health Center Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Parking Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies