Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Center for Global Engagement Menu About CGE Main Office Dr. Jeffrey Hamilton Lynae Jordan Robert Leis Holly Joyner Jorge Vielledent International Student and Scholar Services Office Dr. Mark Bryant Grace Semple-Paul, JD Leslie Hicks Timothy Johnson Brandon Hoye Delores Melendez Study Abroad Office Bo White, Ed.D. Kodi Henderson Katie Klingstedt Sophia Ferris Global Gateway Program Events News Study Abroad Why Study Abroad Steps to Study Abroad Choosing a Program Academics Study Abroad Advising Appointment Costs and Funding Application Timeline Parent Information Baylor Study Abroad Programs Types of Programs Programs by Location Areas of Study Explore Programs Internships and Research Abroad Health & Safety I'm Accepted..What's Next? Tips Photo Contest Social Media Takeover Study Abroad Fair Program Director Portal Program Director Development Videos Propose a New Program BearsAbroad GlobalProtect VPN International Travel with Duo Global Safety and Security FAQ International Student and Scholar Services International Students New Student Information F-1 Degree-Seeking Students J-1 Exchange Students Paying Taxes International Scholars Visiting Faculty & Researchers Health Services and Insurance - Scholars J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining Status Programs & Activities Spring 2022 Trips & Special Events Global Friendship Program CGE Ambassadors International Organizations International Student & Scholar Workshops Academic and Language Resources International Student Resource Hub Community Support Page Summer Courses in China Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit ISSS Programming Framework Global Baylor Certificate Program Enrollment and Benefits Submission Process Global Engagement Courses Testimonials Intercultural Competence Courses Global Calendar & Events First Abroad Fellows Program Connecting to Global Initiatives Quality Enhancement Plan Global Baylor in the News International Education Week Global Gateway Our Program About Us Cornell Menking Meredith Moore Nate Hutcherson Christine Fabiszewski Matthew Piech Tanya Vernon Debra Wainscott Tracey Jones Amber McKinney Visitor Directions to the Global Gateway Program Current Students IY - Undergraduate MIY - Graduate International Student Academic Support STL 1205 - Academic Success Strategies for International Students New Students On-Campus Study Information Frequently Asked Questions GGP Arrival Information On-Campus Housing & Dining Finances Life at Baylor Academics Faculty & Staff Toolkit Toolkit Global Scholars Why Global Scholars Global Scholars Application Process Starting in Dublin Studying in Dublin, Ireland Course Work Cost Residence Hall in Dublin Global Scholars Community Global Scholars Leadership Register Travel Faculty/Staff Only Travel Faculty & Student Group Travel Student Only Travel Give Baylor>Center for Global Engagement>Global Scholars>Global Scholars Leadership Global Scholars Leadership Leadership Dr. Jeff Hamilton Vice Provost for Global Engagement Dr. Hamilton has been on the faculty at Baylor since 1995. He holds a B.A. from Tufts University and an M.A. and Ph.D. from Emory University. Prior to serving as Vice Provost for Global Engagement, Dr. Hamilton was chair of the Department of History. The VPGE oversees international education initiatives including study abroad and international student and scholar services. He has been VPGE for 7 years and has traveled internationally extensively in order to expand Baylor's global offerings. He is excited about the new Global Scholars initiative and believes it is a great opportunity for Baylor students to expand and embrace a global worldview. Holly Joyner Director of Programming and Development for Global Scholars; Assistant Director of Marketing and Communications for the Center for Global Engagement Based in Waco, she oversees Baylor's Global Scholars program and is the main point of contact for students applying to the program. Holly will also be on hand during orientation in both the Waco and Dublin portions. Prior to joining the Center for Global Engagement, she served as the Program Director for several of Baylor's Living Learning Center's including the Fine Arts LLC and Baylor & Beyond LLC. Before Baylor, Holly worked at the University of North Texas as their Orientation Coordinator. Holly is a 2007 graduate of Baylor University where she earned a B.A in International and Asian Studies. She also has her Masters of Science in Higher Education from Azusa Pacific University in California. Dr. Bo White Director of Baylor Study Abroad Dr. White has traveled to over forty countries in both faith-based service and international education. Prior to Baylor, he was the Director of Global Exchange at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and currently serves as the Director of Study Abroad in the Center for Global Engagement at Baylor University. A student of leadership, he seeks to nurture a curiosity for ideas and culture within a passion for keeping grace at the center of life and work. He is excited to work on the Global Scholars initiative and assist Baylor students in their global endeavors as well as connect them to a network of resources. While in Dublin, you'll be accompanied by full-time Baylor faculty and staff. We are thrilled to announce that Dr. Charles McDaniel will be the faculty member teaching courses and guiding you through your travels during the semester, along with a graduate assistant from the Baylor Religion Ph.D. program Dr. Charles McDaniel Faculty Director - Global Scholars Dublin; Associate Professor in Church-State Studies Dr. McDaniel will be traveling with our 2022 Fall Cohort to Dublin, Ireland. He will be students' main point of contact while in-country and will teach PSC 1387 - The U.S. Constitution, Its Interpretation, and the American Political Experience as well as a few other elective courses. Dr. McDaniel joined the BIC faculty in 2008 and teaches Social World I and II as well as World Cultures IV. He also teaches courses in the areas of church history, religion and law, and Christian social thought through Baylor’s J. M. Dawson Institute. McDaniel has numerous publications in books and scholarly journals on subjects ranging from the Protestant Reformation to Christian and Muslim economic thought. His book, God and Money: The Moral Challenge of Capitalism, was published by Rowman and Littlefield in 2007. He also was the Faculty Director for the Baylor in St. Andrews study abroad program in 2017 and enjoyed his time abroad immensely. He is looking forward to this opportunity to take students abroad again and welcomes any questions you may have. OTHER SUPPORT STAFF: In addition to Dr. McDaniel and the graduate assistant who will be on-site the entire semester, FIE's professional staff will be available 24/7. The graduate assistant and FIE's Student Life Assistants will also live in your residential hall. Still, have questions? Check out our FAQs here or email Global_Scholars@baylor.edu Global Scholars Why Global Scholars Global Scholars Application Process Starting in Dublin Studying in Dublin, Ireland Course Work Cost Residence Hall in Dublin Global Scholars Community Global Scholars Leadership Center for Global Engagement Hankamer Academic Center, H 160.01 1428 S. 5th St. Waco, TX 76798 One Bear Place #97012 Waco, TX 76798-7012 (254) 710-1461 Global_Baylor@baylor.edu Global_Gateway@baylor.edu ISSS_Support@baylor.edu StudyAbroad@baylor.edu Global BaylorInternational Student and Scholar ServicesRegister Your TravelStudy AbroadGlobal Gateway General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About CGE Main Office Dr. Jeffrey Hamilton Lynae Jordan Robert Leis Holly Joyner Jorge Vielledent International Student and Scholar Services Office Dr. Mark Bryant Grace Semple-Paul, JD Leslie Hicks Timothy Johnson Brandon Hoye Delores Melendez Study Abroad Office Bo White, Ed.D. Kodi Henderson Katie Klingstedt Sophia Ferris Global Gateway Program Events News Study Abroad Why Study Abroad Steps to Study Abroad Choosing a Program Academics Study Abroad Advising Appointment Costs and Funding Application Timeline Parent Information Baylor Study Abroad Programs Types of Programs Programs by Location Areas of Study Explore Programs Internships and Research Abroad Health & Safety I'm Accepted..What's Next? Tips Photo Contest Social Media Takeover Study Abroad Fair Program Director Portal Program Director Development Videos Propose a New Program BearsAbroad GlobalProtect VPN International Travel with Duo Global Safety and Security FAQ International Student and Scholar Services International Students New Student Information F-1 Degree-Seeking Students J-1 Exchange Students Paying Taxes International Scholars Visiting Faculty & Researchers Health Services and Insurance - Scholars J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining Status Programs & Activities Spring 2022 Trips & Special Events Global Friendship Program CGE Ambassadors International Organizations International Student & Scholar Workshops Academic and Language Resources International Student Resource Hub Community Support Page Summer Courses in China Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit ISSS Programming Framework Global Baylor Certificate Program Enrollment and Benefits Submission Process Global Engagement Courses Testimonials Intercultural Competence Courses Global Calendar & Events First Abroad Fellows Program Connecting to Global Initiatives Quality Enhancement Plan Global Baylor in the News International Education Week Global Gateway Our Program About Us Cornell Menking Meredith Moore Nate Hutcherson Christine Fabiszewski Matthew Piech Tanya Vernon Debra Wainscott Tracey Jones Amber McKinney Visitor Directions to the Global Gateway Program Current Students IY - Undergraduate MIY - Graduate International Student Academic Support STL 1205 - Academic Success Strategies for International Students New Students On-Campus Study Information Frequently Asked Questions GGP Arrival Information On-Campus Housing & Dining Finances Life at Baylor Academics Faculty & Staff Toolkit Toolkit Global Scholars Why Global Scholars Global Scholars Application Process Starting in Dublin Studying in Dublin, Ireland Course Work Cost Residence Hall in Dublin Global Scholars Community Global Scholars Leadership Register Travel Faculty/Staff Only Travel Faculty & Student Group Travel Student Only Travel Give