Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES LINGUISTICS AMERICAN SIGN LANGUAGE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 ASL 101 Elementary American Sign Language I (5) Lance Forshay, Kristi G Winter Introduction to American Sign Language using conversational methods. Covers vocabulary, grammatical usage, and culturally appropriate behavior within the deaf community. First in a sequence of three. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ASL 101 ASL 102 Elementary American Sign Language II (5) Kristi G Winter, Lance Forshay Focuses on building mastery of American Sign Language grammar skills, increasing vocabulary, and gaining a deeper knowledge and appreciation of deaf culture. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: ASL 101. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ASL 102 ASL 103 Elementary American Sign Language III (5) Lance Forshay, Kristi G Winter Focuses on grammatical features such as spatialization, directionality, and non-manual components. Intensive work in vocabulary development and continued study of deaf culture. Third in a series of three. Prerequisite: ASL 102. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ASL 103 ASL 134 Intensive First Year ASL (15) Bateh, Forshay, Winter Intensive introduction to American Sign Language using conversational methods and covering vocabulary, grammatical usage, and culturally appropriate behavior. Also focused on grammatical features such as spatialization, directionality, and non-manual components. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: ASL 134 ASL 201 Intermediate American Sign Language I (5) VLPA Lance Forshay Covers vocabulary, grammatical usage, and culturally appropriate behavior within the deaf community. Emphasizes receptive/expressive skill development and fluency with attention to correct formation of signs, movement, rhythm, phrasing, and clarity. First in a series of three. Prerequisite: either ASL 103 or ASL 134. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ASL 201 ASL 202 Intermediate American Sign Language II (5) VLPA Lance Forshay Covers vocabulary, grammatical usage, and culturally appropriate behavior within the deaf community. Emphasizes receptive/expressive skill development and fluency with attention to correct formation of signs, movement, rhythm, phrasing, and clarity. Second in a series of three. Prerequisite: ASL 201. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ASL 202 ASL 203 Intermediate American Sign Language III (5) VLPA Kristi G Winter, Lance Forshay Covers vocabulary, grammatical usage, and culturally appropriate behavior within the deaf community. Emphasizes receptive/expressive skill development and fluency with attention to correct formation of signs, movement, rhythm, phrasing, and clarity. Third in a series of three. Prerequisite: ASL 202. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ASL 203 ASL 234 Intensive Intermediate American Sign Language (15) VLPA Lance Forshay Intensive second year American Sign Language using conversational methods and covering vocabulary, grammatical usage, and culturally appropriate behavior. Also focuses on grammatical features such as spatialization, directionality, and non-manual components. Prerequisite: ASL 103. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: ASL 234 ASL 301 Advanced American Sign Language I (5) VLPA This course is a non-sequential course in advanced study of American Sign Language (ASL) with emphasis on basic concepts of ASL linguistics. This is an application of linguistic theories in ASL in which students will gain an advanced understanding and mastery of ASL grammar, sociolinguistics, language variation in the Deaf community according to region, age, gender, minority groups and Deaf-Blind people. Prerequisite: ASL 203; recommended: ASL 203 Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ASL 301 ASL 302 Advanced ASL II (5) VLPA L. Forshay Non-sequential course in advanced study of American Sign Language (ASL) with emphasis on basic concepts of ASL linguistics. An application of linguistic theories in ASL in which students gain an advanced understanding and mastery of ASL grammar, sociolinguistics, language variation in the Deaf community according to region, age, gender, minority groups and Deaf-Blind people. Prerequisite: ASL 203 Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ASL 302 ASL 303 Advanced ASL III (5) VLPA M. Cooper Non-sequential course in advanced study of American Sign Language (ASL) with emphasis on basic concepts of ASL linguistics. An application of linguistic theories in ASL in which students will gain an advanced understanding and mastery of ASL grammar, sociolinguistics, language variation in the Deaf community according to region, age, gender, minority groups and Deaf-Blind people. Prerequisite: ASL 203; recommended: ASL 203 Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ASL 303 ASL 305 Introduction to American Deaf Culture (3) I&S, DIV L. FORSHAY Covers topics in Deaf culture, history, education, sociology, language, legal issues, art and literature, sensory variety and politics, audism, assistive technological devices, Deafhood, Deaf Blind, Deaf identity and intersections of diversity within the Deaf community, and other special topics analyzed from the Deaf culture worldview. View course details in MyPlan: ASL 305 ASL 306 Deaf History (3) I&S Covers all major events impacting Deaf people, in Europe and America. Topics include: development of sign language, deaf education, politics of deafness, audism, eugenics, hearing technology, leadership in deaf community, deaf revolution movements, international deaf history, and key biographies. Experience with American Sign Language not required. View course details in MyPlan: ASL 306 ASL 334 Intensive Advanced American Sign Language (15) VLPA K. Winter Intensive course in advanced study of American Sign Language (ASL) with emphasis on basic concepts of ASL linguistics, Deaf cultural history and DeafBlind studies. An application of linguistic theories in ASL in which students gain an advanced understanding and mastery of ASL grammar, sociolinguistics, language variation in the Deaf community according to region, age, gender, minority groups and DeafBlind people. Prerequisite: ASL 203 or ASL 234; recommended: Two years of ASL at an institution of higher learning. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: ASL 334 ASL 480 Special Topics in American Sign Language (3, max. 12) VLPA L. Forshay Introduction to an area of study in American Sign Language (ASL). Topics may include ASL linguistics, Pro-Tactile, Foreign Signed Languages, Deaf culture or other related topics. Recommended: Some background in American Sign Language. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: ASL 480 ASL 495 Literature and Poetry (3) VLPA Emphasizes the historical background, story content, analysis of grammatical features, and discourse analysis to include a variety of sign registers and styles. Challenges and redefines the concept of literature with the visual-gestural nature of sign language using films and videos including: the Veditz's 1913 motion films collections; American Sign Language poetry works by Valli and Lentz; folktales; and humor. Prerequisite: ASL 202. View course details in MyPlan: ASL 495 ASL 499 Independent Study or Research (1-3, max. 3) L. FORSHAY, K. WINTER Advanced study or research of a topic related to American Sign Language guided by a faculty member. Prerequisite: ASL 203; ASL 305. View course details in MyPlan: ASL 499 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022