Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Academic Success Center Menu Toggle Search Resources SI Schedule Tutoring Profile Main navigation About Mission & Values Meet the ASC Team Work for the ASC Find Us Academic Coaching & Outreach Meet with a Coach Resources & Worksheets Workshops Meet Our Coaches Supplemental Instruction Tutoring Services Psych 131 What is Academic Coaching? Academic Coaching is the one-on-one process of helping a student examine academic concerns and perceived barriers to success. Coaches provide individual semester-long support, assess the student’s strengths and needs, and devise a personalized plan of action in the following areas: Time management Procrastination Exam preparation Note taking Reading strategies Students can also work through our resources on their own. Academic Coaches... Are trained in evidence-based strategies to facilitate each session Work to empower the student towards positive behavior change Have excellent oral and written communication skills STUDENTS WHO MEET WITH AN ACADEMIC COACH WILL BE ABLE TO... Articulate their academic strengths and areas for growth Take responsibility for their learning Manage adversity to promote personal growth Make choices to expand their knowledge and skills to help them achieve their academic goals Practice purposeful leadership by collaborating and finding common ground with their coach in effort to reach their academic goals Click Here to Meet our Team Instructions to Schedule an Academic Coaching Meeting Download the Navigate App Download “Navigate Student” app in the App Store or Google Play. Once installed login with your ISU Login. OR Login to navigate using your web browser Steps to schedule an academic coaching meeting using Navigate: Log in to Navigate mobile app or browser version using your ISU login. Click “Appointments” and then “Schedule an Appointment”. Select "Academic Support" for the Care Unit. Select "Academic Coaching" for the Service. Select "Academic Success Center" for the Location. Then choose from available days/times and schedule your appointment. You will receive a confirmation email with additional information to help you prepare for your appointment. Please call 515-294-6624 if you need assistance scheduling an appointment. No-Show & Cancellation Policy Due to the high demand of coaching appointments, students who no-show or cancel 2 or more appointments will not be eligible for Academic Coaching for the rest of the semester. You will be referred to workshops and resources to support you throughout the remainder of the semester. If you believe you have a reason that warrants additional review of this policy, you are welcome to contact your Academic Coach and they will review on a case-by-case basis. If you arrive 10 or more minutes late (virtually or in-person), the coach may ask you to reschedule your appointment. Preparing for Your Coaching Meeting Before Complete the short survey by following the link sent to you in your appointment confirmation. Check your ISU email for any communication about what you might need to have prepared for appointment Consider checking out our Coaching staff page to learn a little more about your Academic Coach and who you will be meeting with. What change(s) would you like to see as a result of working with a coach? For example, here are some skills that students have worked on: Creating a time management system that works for you Determine a plan to study for upcoming exams Identifying learning techniques that are most effective for you Trying new reading or note-taking strategies Setting goals and creating structure to meet those goals Write down questions you have about the coaching process During Try to arrive at least 5 minutes before your appointment to allow time to fill out a brief survey. You will be given a handout to take notes during your appointment to help you remember what you and the coach talked about, be sure to bring a writing utensil. Remember coaching is what YOU want it to be. If you feel the conversation is not helpful or going the direction you want be sure to ask the coach to change gears! We want to make sure you find the appointment useful. Your coach will ask if you want to schedule a follow-up appointment. We encourage students to strongly consider trying to meet with their coach at least 2 or 3 times throughout the semester. After Spend some time reviewing what you talked about with your Academic Coach. Make sure to think about what actionable steps you will commit to this week. Remember we can’t change everything at once, try to pick one small step. Check-in with yourself during the week after your appointment and ask these questions. What progress have you made? If you feel stuck, what did you notice about what didn’t go as planned? Any other observations or insights you’ve made since then? Are there other resources you should continue to check-out besides coaching to support my academic goals, like: Tutoring, Supplemental Instruction, self-directed handouts, and workshops? Always remember you can contact your Academic Coach with any additional questions you have after your appointment. Academic coaches love keeping in touch with you and are happy to continue to support you. Remote video URL Request a Workshop Academic Coaching FAQ Worksheets Workshop Schedule Coaches' Corner on YouTube Remote video URL Resources & Worksheets Request a Tutor Supplemental Instruction Psych 131 Workshops Iowa State University Academic Success Center Dean of Students Office Contact Academic Success Center 1060 Hixson Lied Student Success Center 515-294-6624 success@iastate.edu Hours Academic Year: 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Summer and Breaks: 7:30 am- 4:00 pm Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...