Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityAbout Marquette About Marquette Admissions Applying to Marquette Ready to apply? The links below will direct you to the online application pages for each college, school or special academic program. ADMISSIONS FOR Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Graduate business Dentistry Law SPECIAL ACADEMIC PROGRAMS Study abroad Study in Washington, D.C. Special academic programs International students Transfer students Summer studies Visit Marquette Marquette University, an urban university located in Milwaukee, Wis., provides daily visits to prospective students. Visit Marquette. Watch students tell their stories What's it like to live, study and play at Marquette University? Nobody knows better than those doing just that. Watch students tell their stories in My Marquette. Academics Academics at Marquette Marquette is routinely listed among the country's top universities, renowned for academic rigor, innovation and the achievements of its community of scholars. Colleges and schools Klingler College of Arts and Sciences College of Business Administration Diederich College of Communication School of Dentistry College of Education Opus College of Engineering Graduate School Graduate School of Management College of Health Sciences Law School College of Nursing Rankings Marquette ranks 84th in the 2020 edition of America's Best Colleges, released by U.S. News & World Report. View more rankings. Enhance your experience Whether it's through studying abroad, community service or student organizations, Marquette students take advantage of numerous programs to add to their experience. About About Marquette Marquette is a Catholic and Jesuit university located in Milwaukee, Wis., that offers more than 80 majors in its nationally and internationally recognized colleges and schools. About Marquette Tuition & costs Catholic & Jesuit Diversity at Marquette Our mission Our history Student demographics Academics Colleges & schools Majors & programs How we measure the student experience Assessment Accreditation Rankings & recognition Marquette en Español Acerca de Marquette Beyond the classroom Community Engagement Corporate Engagement Land Acknowledgment COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Libraries The libraries at Marquette The libraries at Marquette are a place where people, technology, and the printed word come together in a vibrant atmosphere that advances learning and discovery. Raynor Memorial Libraries Raynor Memorial Libraries website Library hours Raynor Memorial information desk: (414) 288-7556 Law Library Ray & Kay Eckstein Law Library website Current semester hours Building hours Student services Law information desk: (414) 288-7031 Collections and archives The Department of Special Collections and University Archives features university treasures, including the J.R.R. Tolkien Collection. University Archives Learn about the collections Search the collections Digitized collections Research Research at Marquette Research at Marquette has a strong sense of purpose and action, whether through the extension of knowledge beyond existing boundaries, the development of solutions to the world’s most pressing problems or the search for answers to life’s deepest questions. Learn more Grants, awards & presentations Books by Marquette faculty Discover research at Marquette Centers & institutes Faculty awards Office of Research & Innovation Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Marquette experts DISCOVER Marquette research Every spring, DISCOVER: Marquette University Research and Scholarship showcases some of the most interesting research happening on and off campus. Check out our interactive 2019 Discover Magazine Accessible PDF See past issues Athletics Athletics at Marquette The university's 16 varsity sports teams play in the BIG EAST Conference. Join us as we proudly say: We are Marquette! Teams Men's basketball Women's basketball Cross country Men's golf Men's lacrosse Women's lacrosse Men's soccer Women's soccer Men's tennis Women's tennis Track & field Women's volleyball Tickets The Ticket Office conducts ticketing for seven Golden Eagles' varsity sports: men’s and women’s basketball, men’s and women’s lacrosse, men’s and women’s soccer and women’s volleyball. Spirit Shop The Spirit Shop features the most popular brands of attire for Marquette fans. Shop on campus or online. Alumni Marquette alumni Ring out ahoya with fellow alumni through the Marquette University Alumni Association, an organization of nearly 110,000 members worldwide. Learn more About MUAA Class notes and news Clubs & chapters Events & reunions Alumni Newsletter Networking Join the CIRCLES business networking program Connect with the MUAA group on LinkedIn Marquette Magazine Marquette Magazine is the university's official quarterly alumni publication. View latest issue. Giving Help to enrich and expand student opportunities, support our teacher-scholars, foster innovation and transform our campus. Give online today and rise with us! Marquette.edu // About Marquette // Tuition and Costs Introduction Undergraduate Graduate Graduate School of Management Law School Dental School Per credit rates College of Health Sciences professional At Marquette, we understand that a college education is a significant investment for our students and their families, requiring sacrifices amid a time of economic uncertainty. Yes, it's worth it. But you should also know that approximately 98 percent of our undergraduates receive financial aid in the form of scholarships, grants, loans or student employment. As you journey through your four years with us and beyond, know that we recognize the tremendous responsibility we have to help shape and transform the lives of our students at this great Catholic and Jesuit institution. We are committed to providing them all with a transformational education rooted in excellence. Value of a Marquette education Knowing where your money goes and how the university operates is paramount to understanding the true value of a Marquette education. 2022–23 undergraduate tuition and costs (per year) Undergraduate tuition — $45,860 Typical room and meals — $14,823* *Based on average standard double room rate. Fees — $810 Additional lab fees as assigned by course Go to Marquette Central for more information about 2022–2023 rates. Resources Undergraduate financial aid Undergraduate scholarship opportunities Apply for FAFSA online Financial aid More than 90 percent of our freshmen receive financial aid, including scholarships, grants, student employment and low-interest loans. Check out our Net Price Calculator to get a quick estimate on your tuition. 2022–23 Graduate School tuition and costs Education graduate — $930 (per credit hour) Humanities graduate — $500 (per credit hour) (Christian Doctrine; English; Languages, Literatures and Cultures; History; Theology; and Philosophy (applies to master’s level programs only)). All other graduate — $1,245 (per credit hour) Go to Marquette Central for more information about 2022–23 rates. Resources Graduate financial aid Merit-based opportunities Need-based opportunities Financial aid deadlines Apply for Graduate School financial aid Financial aid Each year, the Graduate School awards students approximately $12.5 million in stipends and tuition scholarships. Availability varies by program. 2022–23 Graduate School of Management tuition and costs Master of business administration program — $1,245 (per credit hour) $2,500 deposit billed in fall term for new students Executive MBA for continuing students — $78,000 (includes tuition, textbooks, parking, international trip, laptop, meals, etc.) Executive MBA for new students — $79,500 (includes tuition, textbooks, parking, international trip, laptop, meals, etc.) Go to Marquette Central for more information about 2022–23 rates. Resources Application process Financing your degree Graduate programs Financial aid deadlines Financial aid Each year, the Graduate School awards students approximately $12.5 million in stipends and tuition scholarships. Availability varies by program. Law School tuition and costs Visit the Marquette University Law School website to see tuition and costs information. Go to Marquette Central for more information about 2022–2023 rates. Resources Applying for financial aid Applying for scholarships Application procedure Application selection criteria FAQs for prospective students Admission informational sessions Financial aid Nearly 90 percent of first-year students receive financial aid, including scholarships and low-interest loans. School of Dentistry tuition and costs Visit the Marquette University School of Dentistry website to see tuition and costs information. Go to Marquette Central for more information about 2022–2023 rates. Resources Dental admissions Dental Admission Test Applying for financial aid Contact Admissions Financial Aid Each year, more than $11 million in financial assistance is awarded to dental students. 2022–23 undergraduate per credit rates Summer Studies — $780 J-Session — $780 (Limited to 3 credits and is in addition to spring and fall full-time rate) Online Strategic Communication — $780 Part time — $1,135 Go to Marquette Central for more information about 2022–23 rates. Summer Studies and J-Session To learn more, visit the websites for Summer Studies and J-Session. 2022–23 College of Health Sciences professional tuition and costs Physical therapy (doctoral phase) Physical therapy (doctoral phase) — $49,052 (per year, including summer session) Additional costs for PT Physician assistant studies Physician assistant studies — $45,860 (per year, including summer session during the professional phase) Additional costs for P.A. Resources D.P.T. admissions P.A. admissions Financial Aid Direct admit PT students may use undergraduate financial aid during their first four years of the program. A pool of approximately $240,000 total is available to eligible 5th and 6th year students (60-80 applicants to this pool per year, given based on need and merit). Value and values Kiplinger’s Personal Finance listed Marquette among its "Best Values in Private Colleges for 2018." But a Marquette education is more than just a great value. It's about values, too. In fact, the university was the 10th higher education institution bestowed the Changemaker Campus title by the Ashoka Institute, a leader in social entrepreneurship. Location Marquette University 1250 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (800) 222-6544 Key Resources español Employment Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu COVID-19 Information eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©