Skip to main content Search HFS Live Experience Eat Explore Serach HFS Live Eat Experience Explore HFS offices will be closed or have limited service on Wednesday, May 25, from 1:45–3:45 pm for a staff recognition event. Housing & Food Services Welcome to your Husky Home Choose a Husky Home designed to support you Live in an inclusive and supportive campus community where everyone can comfortably join in or confidently stand out. Create your own unique #HuskyHome experience! Live on campus Our Coronavirus FAQ has important information on the UW vaccination requirement, the campus rules for face coverings and physical distancing, and information on self-administered testing kits available for all residents. What our residents are saying "There is no better way to make UW feel like home than to live here." Halsey S., Resident "Living on campus has given me a sense of belonging." Demi L., Resident "Being near resources and other study groups has made it easier to succeed!" Brianna J., Resident Dining on campus UW Dining serves more than great meals. Our commitment to students provides jobs where they can learn new skills and our campus catering program gives back to our residents. Learn more about us including our responsible approach to sustainability and nutrition. Resident Dining Program Our student dining plans are flexible, convenient, easy to manage and a great value. Resident Dining We're hiring! We’re looking for eligible students to work at least 10 hours a week who want to learn new skills. Student Jobs Let's eat Welcome students, faculty, staff and guests! Restaurants, markets, espresso bars & cafés are open to serve you. What's open Resources for residents Husky Card The official identification card for UW students, including services such as transportation, your dining account card and building access. Husky Card Services My HFS Similar to MyUW, this is your portal to your housing and dining accounts. My HFS is also where you will apply for housing. Go to My HFS Parents and families Our residents are important to us, and so is our partnership with their families. If you are new to our site, visit our Parents and Families page. There you will find information about how to support your student's Husky Home experience. Housing tours Explore our interactive 360° or video housing tour to experience on-campus residence halls and apartments. Housing and Dining virtual tour Explore our interactive 360° map as you experience West and North campus housing and dining locations. HFS Virtual Tour Housing video tour Come along with one of our Housing Ambassadors and learn what makes every #HuskyHome special. HFS video tour HFS Contact Us About HFS Staff Jobs Meeting Space Conference Services Intern Housing UW Husky Health & Wellbeing MyUW Student Life Disability Resources for Students Accessible Technology Sustainability CONNECT WITH US 1045 NE Campus Parkway Seattle, WA 98105 | hfsinfo@uw.edu © 2022 HOUSING & FOOD SERVICES | UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON PRIVACY TERMS SITE MAP