Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Home About Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources Initiatives People Events Blog Site Navigation Home About Land Acknowledgment Programs History Nightingale-Brown House Richard Neutra's "Windshield" House Model Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Black Labor at Nightingale-Brown House Brochure: Slave Labor and the Making of the Nightingale-Brown House Doing Public Humanities Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan DIAP Summary Update 2019-2020 Year in Review Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Past practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Tuition Scholarship & Other Funding Public History of Slavery Fellowship Native American & Indigenous Studies Fellowship Curatorial Fellowships City Year (Americorps) Agreement Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources Initiatives Conferences Exhibitions Gallery Publications Partnerships Digital Projects Suffrage in Rhode Island: A Lippitt Family Perspective Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Public Work: A Public Humanities Podcast Rhode Tour Public Humanities Blog Day of Public Humanities Brown FACADES App Year of the City: The Providence Project People Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisory Board Public Humanities Fellows Current Students Alumni Alumni Directory Alumni Interviews Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops Blog Forms and Resources Grievance Procedures and Resources Student Affinity Groups Public Humanities Forms Workday Instructions and I-9 Information Affiliated Departments Other websites and useful forms (Graduate School, Registrar's office, IT) Grievance Procedures and Resources Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity to file bias incident report Discrimination and Harassment Policy. Sexual Harassment and Assault Resources and Education (SHARE) if a student experiences issues related to sexual assault, sexual and/or gender-based harassment, domestic/dating violence, relational abuse or stalking The Title IX and Gender Equity Office oversees Formal Complaints made by students that involve cases of Sexual and Gender-Based Harassment, Sexual Assault and Interpersonal Violence. The Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards oversees Formal Complaints made by students that involve instances in which the Student Code of Conduct has been violated. Brown’s Graduate School oversees Formal Complaints brought by graduate students at Brown that are not addressed by other offices or processes such as those above. Student Affinity and Support Groups Brown RISD Hillel: As the largest student organization on campus, Hillel offers performing artists, lectures, Jewish learning, symposia, community action projects, Israel study, and a safe place for students to be Jewish. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS): All clinicians in Counseling and Psychological Services are required to have experience in working with students from diverse backgrounds. The office provides ongoing programming for students on topics such as ethnic and racial identity and hate crimes. Global Brown Center for International Students: Global Brown supports the international student community at Brown thought orientations, programming, and resources that celebrate and recognize the diversity of international identities. Brown Center for Students of Color: BCSC sponsors various events for Graduate Students of Color (GSOC) throughout the academic year. They have a weekly newsletter, a student advisory board and run public lectures and programs. LGBTQ Center: The Center provides counseling, resources and public programs. Native Americans at Brown: NAB is a student-led organization. We are committed to community building amongst ourselves as students and staff, as well as with the local Narragansett and Wampanoag communities. Our group works toward increasing awareness about Native issues. Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life: The mission of this office is to ensure that a diversity of beliefs have voice and vitality throughout the University community. This website introduces their work, programs and religious life colleagues, as well as resources available to undergraduate, graduate, medical students, staff, faculty, and alumni/ae. Office of the Dean of the College: The Office of the Dean of the College connects students with Deans who serve as resources in academics, advising, and a broad range of issues students may face while at Brown. Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity: The OIED provides leadership for the formulation and oversight of University policies related to pluralism and equity, and initiates programs and practices that promote diversity, inclusion, and fair treatment of all members of the community. The University designates officers who are responsible for issues of compliance and who are available to answer questions and provide advice. Office of International Student and Scholar Services: OISSS provides support in the development of university policies and programs relating to issues particular to international exchange, and additionally works with organizations that serve the needs of Brown's international community. Office of Military-Affiliated Students: Programs for student veterans, and for students pursuing military commissions while at Brown. Samuel M. Nabrit Black Graduate Student Association: The purpose of the Nabrit BGSA is to enhance the intellectual growth, professional success, and social enjoyment of graduate students within the African Diaspora at Brown University. The Nabrit BGSA also seeks to serve as a source of cultural enrichment and moral support for its members. The Nabrit BGSA may also act as an advocate and voice for the social, political, academic, and safety concerns of graduate students within the African Diaspora at Brown University. Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender: The SDC offers to all students, staff, and faculty resources around gender and its intersections with other markers of identity. Student and Employee Accessibility Services: SEAS coordinates services and accommodations for students, faculty and staff with physical, psychological, sensory, and learning disabilities. SEAS is also available for consultation with Brown community members who are questioning whether they may have a disability, have questions about working with someone who has a disability, or have a temporary condition that may require accommodations or services. Title IX and Gender Equity Office: This office provides resources on assault prevention, education, reporting, and other matters of sexual and gender-based harassment. Public Humanities Forms Master's Thesis in Public Humanities Declaration Form Public Humanities Conference Funding Request Form Public Humanities Gallery Request Form Workday Instructions and I-9 Information Workday: Entering Time Worked as a Student Worker (hourly pay only) Workday: How to set up Direct Deposit I-9 Information: I-9 process must be completed before a student can be hired into Workday or paid by Brown University Affiliated Departments American Studies History Anthropology History of Art and Architecture Archaeology Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Other websites and useful forms (Graduate School, Registrar's office, IT) Graduate School Open Graduate Education 5th-year Master's Degree Emergency Loan Programs Graduate School Conference Travel Leaves of Absence Master's Funding The Registrar's Office RISD cross-registration Application for Graduate Transfer Credit Loaner Laptops, Cameras, and Projectors (Brown IT) Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Brown University Box 1880 Nightingale Brown House 357 Benefit Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1177 Fax: 401-863-7777 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top