By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Stories Eight Great Ways to Experience the Barnes Center at The Arch Eight Great Ways to Experience the Barnes Center at The Arch Care for the whole person—mind, body and spirit—is accessible to our campus community under one roof. What does a focus on holistic health mean? It means paying attention to the multidimensional aspects of wellness, and recognizing and honoring the interconnectedness of physical, mental, emotional, social and spiritual states. The Barnes Center at The Arch, a leading-edge facility that opened in 2019, is committed to this approach. That’s why, under the same roof, you’ll find both full-suite athletic and weight training facilities and a full-service pharmacy; counseling services and climbing walls; meditation rooms and an esports room; space for group sports and space to just get in the zone, doing your thing. There’s something for everyone at the Barnes Center! Take a virtual tour: And, check out these eight great ways to enjoy the center: 1. Get a toehold Has being inside studying for hours got you climbing the walls? Great idea! Head down to the basement floor at the center and you’ll find two 48-foot climbing walls and a bouldering section where you can challenge yourself. There are routes for all experience levels, a range of skills clinics, and all necessary equipment, including shoes, is available free for Syracuse University and SUNY ESF students. 2. Good games You probably already know that esports promote teamwork, strategic thinking and communication and leadership skills. But did you know that, whether you’re an experienced pro or new to this arena, the esports room is open to the whole campus community? Featuring a library of games, 36 gaming stations, a virtual reality unit and six consoles for Xbox, PlayStation and Nintendo, the room’s stocked with everything you need to join this thriving scene at any level. You can learn more about the Esports Club Team, or check out esports programs, training clinics and league opportunities on the Wellness Portal. 3. Sets, reps and cardio Feel like working out? At the Barnes Center, you have four floors—imagine half a football stadium’s worth of square footage—with over 250 pieces of state-of-the-art cardio and strength training equipment to choose from, as well as plenty of space for stretching. You can sign up for a fitness orientation to get a thorough introduction to what’s available and work with a personal trainer, if you wish, to help you achieve your goals. 4. Werk it Group fitness classes can be as rewarding emotionally as they are physically. There’s just something about the camaraderie born of accomplishing a challenge, together. Whether you’re looking for aquatics, spin, dance, yoga—or a combination of all!—you’ll likely find it in the wide range of classes to choose from. 5. Shoot some hoops Grab some friends and join a pickup game or sign up for an intramural basketball team! These four regulation size courts (that’s a full half acre of squeaky maple flooring…) are equipped with nets too. The spaces can be divided by curtains into distinct activity areas, and you’ll find open rec times reserved for volleyball and badminton throughout the week. 6. Tail-wagging and smiles Science has proven what any dog lover already knows: petting our furry friends makes us less stressed and more relaxed—it can even reduce physical pain! Maybe it’s the unconditional love in their eyes or that they’re totally unselfconscious about their breath… whatever it is, we love these dogs, and they love to be loved. So check the schedule, come get a slobbery kiss on the nose, and feel all the better for it! 7. Keeping our heads above water The pool has it all. Laps? Sure—there’s plenty of space in the six-lane, 25-yard pool. Or maybe you want to rock climb AND swim? No problem—that’s what that climbing wall is for. And then, when you’re ready to relax, you can soak in the big S-shaped spa. FYI, groups can reserve the spa pool for events and the facility walls are equipped with giant screens for showing movies and streaming sports events. The pool also has a zero-degree entry, so it’s accessible to all our community members. 8. Peace of mind The benefits of meditation include lasting relaxation, a quieting and focusing of the mind, and the gain of compassion and clarity. Whether you prefer to practice on your own or with a group, the Meditation Room provides space for anyone looking for calm and a chance to build those valuable internal resources. Sarah H. Griffin This story was published on December 14, 2021. Also of Interest Link Recreation Link A Syracuse education doesn't just challenge your mind. You'll be encouraged to test and grow your physical and mental boundaries via the clubs, classes and facilities that suit you best. Syracuse Stories Link The Orange story has thousands of chapters. Discover some of the people, programs and research that fuel Syracuse University's undeniable spirit. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy