Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Vice Provost for Research Menu Main Nav Vice Provost for Research Vice Provost for Research Contact Back Back Close About Overview Research Facilities Animal Care Facility Clean Room Electron Microscopy Flow Cytometry BD FACSAria Cell Sorter Imaging Facility Isotope Geochemistry Magnetic Resonance Mass Spectrometry Scientific Instrumentation & Machining Services Transmission Electron Microscope X-ray Crystallography Materials Characterization Training News Contact Policies Related Links Research Policies at Boston College VPR Organization Chart (PDF) Internal Grant Opportunities Sponsored Programs Overview Coronavirus Updates BC Research Policies & Federal Regulations University Research and Projects Policy Funding Assistance Documentation & Forms Institutional Profile PeopleSoft Financials Technology Transfer Overview Invention Disclosure Guidance and Education Faculty and Staff Students Partners and Industry Documents Frequently Asked Questions Research Security, Integrity and Compliance Overview Research Security Research Integrity Research Misconduct Export Controls Research Protections Overview Policies & Procedures Forms & Templates Protocol Submission Authorization Agreements Training International Research Animal Welfare Contact Postdoctoral Affairs ResearchMatch Related Links ORP Standard Operating Procedures document Policy for the Protection of Human Research Participants IRB Committee Bylaws Human Subjects Payment Policy Gift Card Distribution Log Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search VPR website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Research Security, Integrity and Compliance Export Controls Research Security, Integrity and Compliance Research Security Research Integrity Research Misconduct Export Controls Export Controls Export Control Compliance It is the policy of Boston College to fully comply with all U.S. export control laws. U.S. export control laws potentially apply to a variety of Boston College activities conducted in support of the University’s academic mission, research portfolio, and administrative functions, including, but not limited to: international travel, gifts (University and individual), international shipments, interactions with restricted or sanctioned individuals and entities, financial transactions, international research and academic collaborations, dissemination of proprietary and/or industry technology, and the use of computer software with encryption features. Violation of federal export control laws can potentially lead to severe criminal, civil, and administrative sanctions and penalties for Boston College and individuals. All BC faculty, staff, and students are therefore expected to determine when and how export control laws apply to their activities, and coordinate with the BC Office of Research Security, Integrity and Compliance to ensure compliance. Please contact the Office of Research Security, Integrity and Compliance for assistance with any of the following Export Control issues: International Shipments International Travel “Deemed” Exports Export Control Exclusions Procurement of Scientific Instruments or Equipment Technology Control Plans Contact Office Email: exportcontrol@bc.edu Leigh-Alistair Barzey Director, Research Security, Integrity and Compliance 617-552-1144, leigh-alistair.barzey@bc.edu Michael Curry Assistant Director, Export Compliance 617-552-2068, michael.curry@bc.edu Statement of Commitment Boston College recognizes the importance of complying with all U.S. export control regulations and is committed to full compliance with these regulations. Export Control compliance is an essential obligation for everyone in our community, and following the few simple steps outlined below will help ensure that the College and you, individually, are complying as fully as possible with these regulations. Do not hesitate to seek guidance on an export control matter. If you become aware of a potential export control problem, report it immediately to our Export Control Coordinator. The vast majority of export control violations are inadvertent: timely reporting a suspected problem is the best mitigation of an inadvertent violation. Resources Export Control Definitions Deemed Export: The dissemination or transmission of export-controlled information or technology to a Foreign Person located in the U.S. The U.S. Government deems that release of export-controlled information or technology to be an export to the Foreign Person’s country of citizenship. Export: An export is any “item” that is sent from the U.S. to a foreign destination. For the purposes of export control, the term “item” includes: commodities, software or technology, such as clothing, building materials, circuit boards, automotive parts, blueprints, intellectual property, design plans, retail software packages and technical information. The method of transport out of the U.S. does not matter to the U.S. Government and items can be exported by regular mail; hand-carried on an airplane; sent via facsimile; uploaded to or downloaded from an Internet site; distributed by email or text message; spoken via a telephonic or in-person conversation; or other means of dissemination. Export Control Laws: A set of federal statutes and regulations that regulate the transfer of certain information, commodities, materials, technology, and software. The three primary sets of export control regulations are the Export Administration Regulations, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control regulations. Export Administration Regulations (EAR): The EAR is overseen by the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry Security (BIS). The BIS regulates commercial and “dual-use” (those with commercial and military applications) items. International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR): The ITAR is overseen by the U.S. Department of State’s Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC). The DDTC regulates military and space-related technologies. Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) Regulations: The OFAC is part of the U.S. Department of the Treasury and regulates transactions with nations and entities subject to embargoes, boycotts, and trade sanctions. Foreign Person: For the purposes of export control, a “Foreign Person” is anyone who is not a U.S. Person. Under the EAR, the U.S. Commerce Department considers the individual’s most recent citizenship and their permanent residence. Under the ITAR, the U.S. State Department considers the individual’s country of origin/birth and all current citizenships. Fundamental Research: As defined by the U.S. Government, “Fundamental Research” is “basic and applied research in science and engineering, the results of which are ordinarily published and shared broadly within the scientific community, as distinguished from proprietary research and from industrial development, design, production, and product utilization, the results of which ordinarily are restricted for proprietary or national security reasons.” Although the results of Fundamental Research are exempt from export control, the application of the exemption is limited and it can be nullified by publication or participation restrictions. Furthermore, the conduct of Fundamental Research can be export-controlled when the research uses equipment, technology or software that is subject to the EAR or ITAR. U.S. Person: For the purposes of export control, a “U.S. Person” is defined as a U.S. citizen, a U.S. entity, a U.S. permanent resident (Green Card Holder), or a person lawfully in the U.S. under certain protected refugee or asylum designations. A U.S. person may engage in export-controlled activities; however, some types of U.S. Government-restricted activities, such as classified research, might be limited to U.S. citizens. Export Control Forms International Shipping Form International Travel Export Control Form U.S. Government Websites U.S. Department of Commerce, BIS U.S. Department of State, DDTC Department of the Treasury, OFAC Back To Top Back To Top Vice Provost for Research Boston College, Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 vproffice@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College