Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Titan Parents and Families Main Navigation Prospective Parents Join Get Involved Events Resources Scholarship Giving Show Extended CSUF Spirit Gear Giving Options Contact Us en Español Welcome! ¡Bienvenidos! Cal State Fullerton's office of Parent and Family Relations is a team of dedicated staff that provide support, services, communication and event opportunities so you to be involved in your student’s college experience. An informed and supportive family plays an integral role in a student’s educational success. We will be here every step of the way to guide you. Stay Connected Facebook Instagram Membership Join parents and family members who are involved with the university and remain active in their Titan’s experience at CSUF. Learn more Scholarship Your undergraduate student can apply for one of the Titan Parent and Family Association scholarships in February. Learn more Giving Your gift can be the catalyst for Titan-sized transformations, inspiring students’ paths, launching careers and improving lives. Learn more CSUF Spirit Gear Show your Titan pride! Each purchase supports Titan Parent and Family Association scholarships and programming. Give Now Coronavirus Information for the CSUF Community The campus is working closely with federal and state officials to ensure your student’s ongoing wellness at the university. In addition, we follow strict protocol, actively clean and reorganize the learning experience to ensure everyone’s safety. Stay up to date with the latest developments. Learn More Contact Us Email: titanparents@fullerton.edu Phone: 657-278-2958 Facebook Instagram Mailing Address: Parent and Family Relations Cal State Fullerton 2600 Nutwood Ave., Ste. 850 Fullerton, CA 92831 Have you moved? Did you get a new number or email address? Update your contact information here: ua.fullerton.edu/updatemyinfo/ This site is maintained by Titan Parents and Families. Last Published 2/10/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact titanparents@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.7 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.