Skip to content Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Main Menu About A Brief Introduction | Engineering Study Abroad Milestone Events Student Life Annual Safety Security Report Academics Courses Academic Calendars Current GT Students Transient Students Graduate Programs MS Analytics MS Computer Science MS Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Environmental Engineering Master of Industrial Design Exchange To GT-Atlanta MS Analytics MS CS MS ECE MS ENVE Master of Industrial Design To GT-Shenzhen To GT-Lorraine Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Financial Scholarships Coulter Scholarships Merit-Based Scholarships NACA Scholarships Tuition and Fees Industry FAQ FAQ on Admission FAQ on Financial Matters FAQ on Programmatic Issues FAQ on GT MS Degree FAQ on PhD Ugrad Summer Contact Us Search Search for: Search Exchange to GT-Lorraine Exchange to GT-Lorraine for MS ECE & MS CS Programs Master of Science (MS) in Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) or Computer Science (CS) students who matriculate through GT-Shenzhen must spend their first two semesters at GT-Shenzhen and earn a minimum of 15 credit hours at GT-Shenzhen. Afterward, they have the possibility of studying at GT-Shenzhen, GT-Lorraine, or GT-Atlanta and completing their Georgia Tech degree program. Students who conclude their Georgia Tech degree program at GT-Shenzhen or GT-Lorraine may participate in the graduation ceremony in Atlanta if they secure a proper U.S. visa (such as a tourist visa). Graduate program information for the GT-Lorraine campus located in Metz, France can be found here. Students applying for an exchange to the GT-Lorraine campus must be in good academic standing (MS ECE students must have 2.7+ GPA and MS CS students must have 3.0+ GPA printed on their GT transcript). Students must also be in good disciplinary standing. GT-Shenzhen will perform multiple checks of this status before the exchange. Exchange students studying at the GT-Lorraine campus should plan to enroll in 9-12 credit hours of course work each spring or fall semester and pay the applicable GT-Lorraine tuition and fees. Graduate courses are not available at the GT-Lorraine campus during the summer. To apply for an exchange to the GT-Lorraine campus, GT-Shenzhen MS ECE and MS CS students should email gtshenzhen@nullece.gatech.edu or gtshenzhen@nullcc.gatech.edu, respectively, approximately 5 months before the start date of the exchange semester with the following information: Name, GTID, and which semester(s) the student wishes to study in France. The GT-Shenzhen office will verify the student’s academic and disciplinary records and refer the student to the GT-Lorraine office for further review and coordination of the study plan, visa and logistical matters. Exchange students to GT-Lorraine must be aware of the following: Tuition and fees will be invoiced to students at the end of phase II registration. They are given two weeks to pay by wire transfer in dollars or Visa application process typically takes 3 months prior to the student’s departure date and consists of three steps: Campus France (EEF), France-visas online application, VFS Global in-person appointment. However, to begin your Campus France application you need an “Official Acceptance Letter” written in French on GT-Lorraine Please reach out to GT-Shenzhen to refer you to staff at GT-Lorraine. Please note visa application cannot be submitted more than 90 days prior to departure. Note that while GT-Shenzhen students may exchange to GT-Lorraine, the decision to grant the French visa or not resides with the visa officer after an in-person interview. Concerning housing at GT-Lorraine, international students live in Residence Edouard Branly. Students will be provided a dorm as soon as they submit their application form for accommodation. Please contacts GT-Shenzhen to refer you to staff at GT-Lorraine to discuss the logistics of your plan to study at GT-Lorraine. Exchange Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS Analytics Program Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS CS Program Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS ECE Program Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS ENVE Program To GT-Shenzhen Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology