Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid How to Apply Tuition & Fees Types of Aid Scholarships & Financial Aid Forms FAQs Undergraduate Admissions Financial Literacy Graduate Costs & Financial Aid Find your Financial Aid Advisor Payment Information Contact Us Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid A great education is the best investment you can make. Among other dividends, you’ll reap expanded opportunities and dramatically higher earnings. At the University of Houston, a great education is within reach. Tuition and fees are comparatively low, and we award millions of dollars in loans, scholarships, and work-study opportunities every year. Virtual Advising is now available The university provides a number of resources to assist you as you apply for financial aid. Questions? Contact the financial aid office or get in touch with your financial aid advisor directly. Financial Aid Advisors are available via email, by phone (713-743-1010, option #5), and by virtual advising appointments (schedule via the Navigate app) to help you with questions about your financial aid process. If you do not have a Cougarnet account, you can call us to make an appointment. Need help managing your personal finances? Visit the Financial Literacy website to learn about spending plans, banking basics, repaying student loans, and more! Related Links Net Price Calculator Financial Aid FAQs Financial Literacy University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies