Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ News Archives 2022 News and Events 2022 Didier Mutel Bridwell Library & Perkins School of Theology Announces Lectures by French Maître d’art Didier Mutel March 30, 2022 Dallas (SMU) — Bridwell Library of SMU Libraries and Perkins School of Theology, Southern Methodist University announces French Maître d’art Didier Mutel to Speak at SMU April 7 and 8, 2022. The book artist, engraver and printer Didier Mutel, who has been making books and engraved prints since 1988, is also an instructor at the Institut Supérieur des Beaux Arts, Besançon, France, where he is training the next generation of engravers and book artists. Didier's dual role in the world of engraving as both a printer and a teacher has led him to think carefully about the history of engraving as well as its future. His first talk will address the history of his atelier (founded in 1793), contextualizing its activities from 1793-present. He will further touch on the history of the artist book in France to 1991. This talk will, take place at the Smith Auditorium of the Meadows Museum from 11:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. on Thursday, April 7, 2022. Using concrete examples of his work held by Bridwell Library Special Collections, Mutel’s second talk will address the production of artist books in his own studio practice – a practice which, since 1988, has sought to redefine the parameters of printmaking and artist books, incorporating historical perspective and awareness with modern-day technique and forward-looking methodology. This talk will take place in the Blue Room of Bridwell Library from 10:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. on Friday, April 8, 2022. For more information, contact Bridwell Library’s Assistant to the Director, Michelle Ried, 214–768–3483 or mried@smu.edu. For more information about Bridwell Library: www.smu.edu/bridwell, 214–768–1866. Information about public parking at SMU (including maps of the SMU campus): www.smu.edu/maps. RSVP online: https://blog.smu.edu/bridwellnews/2022/03/11/maitre-dart-didier-mutel-lectures-at-smu/ An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share