Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home About UH Compact with Texans About UH UH at a Glance Our History & Traditions Leadership UH in the Community University Offices The UH System Our Mission Statement Diversity Statement Compact with Texans Student Affairs Academic Affairs Administration and Finance Mission, Vision & Values Compact With Texans The University of Houston, located in the nation's fourth largest city, is a public, urban institution of higher education chartered by the State of Texas. As a major comprehensive university, UH is committed to four shared values - excellence, integrity, innovation, and responsiveness - in accomplishing the traditional triad of teaching, research and service. Customer satisfaction is inherent in these values, and UH will work to ensure that our students and other constituencies are served effectively, efficiently, and with respect. Solving Problems Solving problems at the University of Houston occurs through both informal and formal channels. Because of our overarching commitment to high quality service, it is expected that the vast majority of problems will be resolved swiftly by the UH faculty and staff members directly involved. However, in those circumstances where immediate resolution is not possible, UH has instituted a formal complaint process whereby problems will be resolved within 10 working days. If resolution is not possible within that time period, the University will provide a written response to the complainant indicating when the problem will be resolved. Formal Complaint Process Interface with University of Houston customers occurs in three primary areas: Student Affairs, Academic Affairs, and Administration & Finance. Hence, customer service representatives have been assigned to address complaints in each of these areas. Complainants are invited to submit their complaints in writing, in person, via e-mail, or by telephone as indicated below. Student Affairs Academic Affairs Administration and Finance University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies