Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Network Accessibility Network right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow About us Accessibility Commitment and Policy EIT Accessibility Plan FAQ's Accessibility 101 right arrow down arrow Accessibility Definitions Documents right arrow down arrow Microsoft Excel Accessibility right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint right arrow down arrow Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Websites right arrow down arrow Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Video & Media right arrow down arrow Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Ordering Professional Captions YouTube Studio Captioning Checklist Purchasing right arrow down arrow Procurement Policy Accessibility Review VPAT Software and Applications Checklist Canvas right arrow down arrow Ally for Canvas Course Syllabus Create an Accessible Canvas Course Checklist Training right arrow down arrow Digital Inclusion Day right arrow down arrow Call for Proposals Schedule of Events Registration Accessibility Compliance Training right arrow down arrow Request Enrollment - Accessibility Compliance Training Home » About UC » Electronic Accessibility » Web » Headers Set Navigation title in component Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Headers Heading structure is used on web pages to organize information on a page into an outline format. Assistive technology, like screen readers, and some browsers provide a list of these headings so the user can jump to their choice of topics. Headings add structure and meaning to web pages by labeling content and indicating their relative importance to each other. When creating web page content, keep in mind that a screen reader will assign a hierarchy to content using headings. Best Practices Do not use headings to decorate or emphasize text. Do not use headings on large blocks of text. Always use headings in outline format. Always use a main heading first with sub-headings below. Resources Below are a list of resources that include more information about proper header usage. W3c Heading Tutorial WebAim Heading Structure Example Below is an example of a correct use of headings. The heading level used is also indicated in the heading for clarity. Majors & Programs (h2) This is where you can put all of your text that describes the overall number of majors and programs that you offer and why they are great. Program 1 (h3) You can give an overview of a specific program in this area. Because this is a sub heading of "Majors & Programs", you move down one heading level. Never move down more than one heading level at a time. Program Requirements (h4) The application information would be another sub head, so again we move down one level to an h4. Application Deadlines (h4) Here we use an h4 again because it's not a sub topic of program requirements, but does logically fall under the "Program 1" header. Program 2 (h3) When we are done talking about the first program, we would move back up to an h3 to start talking about our new program. Remember, you can skip levels going back up in your outline (h4 to h2) but cannot skip levels when going down (h2 to h4). It's helpful to remember that sometimes there is more than one correct heading level to use. In the example above an argument could be made that "Application Deadlines" is a sub head of "Program Requirements" and would use an h5. This isn't incorrect, just a different organizational view. Either way is accessible, it just needs to be consistent throughout your page and site. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top