Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Health and Wellness Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Health and Wellness Menu Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Health and Wellness Health, Safety and Wellness Resources Cura personalis, or care for the whole person, is a cornerstone of Jesuit education. Xavier students stay healthy and active through access to healthy dining options, mental and physical healthcare services, recreational facilities and sports opportunities, a safe campus and informed, engaged spiritual spaces and communities. Explore Xavier's health, safety and wellness resources below. Brand-New Recreation Center The brand-new rec center in the Health United Building includes three indoor basketball courts for intramural sports, a three-lane running track overlooking those courts, three fitness studios, a four-lane indoor pool and recreational gym spaces for treadmills, stationary bikes, ellipticals and weight-lifting machines. Rec Center in the Health United Building Health and Medical Services for Students Xavier students have access to primary medical care, counseling and other health services at the Health United Building on campus. Services are provided by board certified physicians and licensed registered nurses. Services include primary care, allergy treatment, travel medicine, lab tests, immunizations, and pharmacy. Health Services for Students Counseling Services for Students Students have access to counseling services through licensed psychologists and counselors at the Health United Building on campus. The counselors provide for a wide range of mental and behavioral health matters, including anxiety, depression, adjustment, relationships, eating disorders, alcohol and drug issues and other problems. There are no charges for counseling services. Counseling Services for Students Xavier University Police Department Officers provide 24/7 police patrols, blue light assistance phones located throughout campus buildings and grounds, secured card access residence halls, mandatory fire safety training in each residence hall and escort services after dark through XUPD dispatch. Xavier University Police Department Multiple Dining Options for Students The James E. Hoff, S.J. Dining Commons, known as "The Hoff," is the main campus dining hall. Students choose from multiple dining stations, including daily chef specials vegetarian dining options and a gluten-free food station. Food is sourced locally whenever possible, sometimes even from our own Urban Garden. Dining Options for Students Opportunities to Serve and Worship Xavier is a Catholic university, but it’s also home to students of many faiths. Xavier’s Center for Faith and Justice (CFJ) creates and strengthens a sense of community among individuals of diverse faiths on campus. The Center offers prayer services and faith sharing groups, and is home to a full-time Muslim chaplain, Catholic chaplain, Rabbi and Protestant minister. Center for Faith and Justice Title IX Office Xavier’s Title IX Office offers free, confidential advocacy and support and serves as a central resource for questions, complaints or concerns related to sex discrimination at Xavier. The staff also connects students to support resources and provides education and training on sex discrimination to the campus community. Title IX Office Wasson Way Bike Path Students have access to the newly-constructed Wasson Way Bike path, which connects campus to the nearby neighborhoods of Evanston, Norwood, Oakley and Hyde Park. The trail begins just west of Victory Parkway and ends at the beginning of the 78-mile Little Miami Bike Trail. Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram