HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation About M&VE Resources Clemson Student Veteran Center Veteran Tutoring Resources Green Zone Training Veteran Scholarships VA Educational Benefits Military Residency Sitrep Newsletter Organizations Clemson Student Veterans Association SALUTE Veterans Honor Society Mike M. Smalley Veterans Memorial Scholarship Clemson Veterans Living Library Clemson University Veterans Commission Clemson Corps Contact Us Military & Veteran Engagement M&VE Mission Statement: To Serve and Support the Clemson Military-Connected Community through Engagement, Enrichment, Empowerment, and Education. Engagement: Meet the student veteran where they are and bring them into a successful transition via relevant programming and resources Enrichment: Uplift and honor our student veterans by recognizing their military service and academic accomplishments Empowerment: Push our student veterans toward success by challenging and supporting them in achieving their goals Education: Build a supportive college campus through programming and instruction about the military and student veterans with the goal of increasing empathy and understanding while reducing stereotypes and prejudices M&VE Mission Statement: TIGERS: Teamwork, Inclusivity, Growth, Excellence, Responsibility, Support Programming, Services, and Events Military and Veteran Advising Military & Veteran Engagement Advising provides one-on-one advising opportunities for enrolled student veterans to discuss various topics related to their successful transition and adjustment to Clemson University and civilian society. First-semester veterans and those below the GPA requirement to graduate are strongly encouraged to participate; however, any student veteran can engage for an advising session. M&VE serves as supplemental advising to academic advising provided by students’ academic advisers and covers various topics such as academic support, career preparedness, physical and mental health, financial stability, goal-setting, community resources, social engagement, resiliency and mental toughness, and more. M&VE Advising uses CU Navigate to work with other advisers to collaboratively and comprehensively support Clemson student veterans. Veteran Employment Transition Workshops This four-part workshop series is designed to meet student veterans where they are and provide relevant and appropriate resources to help them increase their career awareness and readiness. Each month, a different workshop focused on an important topic related to career readiness will be offered in person with an opportunity for students to engage virtually. Topics include Strengths Quest, Resume Writing, Networking, and Job Search and Interview Preparation. New Student Veteran Orientation Veteran Orientation will be held at the beginning of each semester. Information relevant to their military experience and support on campus will be presented. This is a great opportunity to learn about various on-and off-campus resources for veterans. If you self-identify as a veteran with Clemson, you will automatically receive an email notification of this event. Military Appreciation Day Events Clemson is proud to honor military service members and veterans at annual Military Appreciation Day (MAD) sporting events. Clemson usually hosts MAD Events for Football and Soccer in the Fall and Basketball and Baseball in the Spring. Student veterans are an important focus of every MAD event. Information to participate and be recognized is included in the monthly Sitrep Newsletter. Veterans Hail and Farewell Every May and December, the evening before the university commencement ceremony, we host the Veterans Hail & Farewell Graduation Dinner, a free celebratory event for graduating veterans and their families to recognize the military service and academic accomplishments of our graduates. Graduating veterans will receive their red, white, and blue veteran graduation cord, a Clemson veteran challenge coin, and a letter signed by Clemson University President, Dr. James Clements. Graduating veterans will be invited by email in their final semester. August graduates are invited to participate in the May graduation event. For additional information, please contact Military and Veteran Engagement at veteran@clemson.edu or, at 864-656-2982. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster