Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Media and Public RelationsMenu Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena Baylor Adds Record-Extending 14th Fulbright, Two Boren Award Recipients Xin Wang, Ed.D., Associate Professor of Chinese and Division Director of African & Asian Languages, teaches classes ranging from World Cultures to all levels of Chinese language courses. (Robert Rogers/Baylor University) Faith VanVleet, a senior University Scholar from The Woodlands, has received Baylor's 14th Fulbright this year, a Fulbright English Teaching Assistant Award (ETA) to Ukraine. She will spend her Fulbright year in Poland. (Robert Rogers/Baylor University) Boren Scholarship recipient José Arráiz-Rada, a senior philosophy and international studies major from Katy, Texas, will study Mandarin in Taiwan at National Taiwan University. (Robert Rogers/Baylor University) Tweet May 4, 2022 Media Contact: Lori Fogleman, Baylor University Media and Public Relations, 254-709-5959 Follow us on Twitter: @BaylorUMedia WACO, Texas (May 4, 2022) – Baylor University students continue the momentum of a record-setting 2021-2022 academic year of attaining some of the most prestigious national and international scholarships and awards, including another Fulbright and two Boren Awards. Faith VanVleet, a senior University Scholar from The Woodlands, has received Baylor’s 14th Fulbright this year, which has doubled the University’s previous record high of seven Fulbright recipients in 2019. The Fulbright U.S. Student Program is the flagship international educational exchange program sponsored by the U.S. government, with the goal to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and the people of other countries. VanVleet, who has secondary majors in Slavic and Eastern European Studies and International Studies, received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistant Award (ETA) to Ukraine. She will spend her Fulbright year in Poland, providing assistance to local English teachers while also serving as a cultural ambassador for the United States. In addition, two students have won the prestigious David L. Boren Scholarship, an initiative of the National Security Education Program that provides unique funding opportunities for U.S. undergraduate and graduate students to study less commonly taught languages in world regions critical to U.S. interests. The Baylor Boren Award recipients are: José Arráiz-Rada, a senior philosophy and international studies major from Katy, Texas, who will study Mandarin in Taiwan at National Taiwan University; and Madeline French, a junior language and linguistics major from League City, Texas, who will study Japanese at Hosei University in Japan. Boren Scholars represent a vital pool of highly motivated individuals who wish to work in the federal national security field. In exchange for funding, Boren Awards alumni commit to working in the federal government for at least one year after graduation. In addition to the University’s 14 Fulbright recipients and two Boren winners, five other Baylor students realized their aspirations by earning the Truman Scholarship, the Goldwater Scholarship, two Critical Language Scholarships and the Churchill Scholarship, the culmination of a record-shattering year for students in the areas of critical language study, STEM research, public policy and more. Baylor students are supported by Baylor’s Office of Engaged Learning, which partners with students, in collaboration with faculty and staff throughout the University, to help them maximize their scholarship beyond the classroom, including applying and competing for prestigious scholarships, fellowships, internships and research experiences at the national and international level. Their success also aligns with the University’s recent reclassification as a Research 1 university, one of only 37 private universities with such a designation, elevating Baylor as a preeminent Christian research university. “Behind every one of these students, you will also find a group of dedicated faculty and staff who have believed in them, mentored them, taught them and served them, which is the hallmark of a Baylor education,” said Andrew P. Hogue, Ph.D., associate dean for engaged learning at Baylor. “It’s also highly unusual among our peers at Research 1 universities to have world-class faculty producing at high levels while also pouring heart and soul into helping their students flourish.” ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked Research 1 institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 20,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 90 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. More News ... News Archives Looking for more news from Baylor University? Tweets by @BaylorUMedia Contact Us mail Media and Public Relations Baylor University One Bear Place #97024 Waco, TX 76798 tel (254) 710-1961 Email mediacomm@baylor.edu More Contact Info Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Baylor Bears 2019 Sic 'em for Safety Campaign Baylor Religion Survey Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Detecting Biomarkers for Cancer Eye Cancer App Helps Save Lives Exhuming Immigrant Remains Fighting Tropical Diseases Higgs Boson Research iCivics Baylor Model Life Patterns in Extreme Environments Paul L. Foster Campus Leadership and Innovation Summit Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation Small Business and Community Health Research Texas Hunger Initiative Water Quality Research Whale Earplug Reveals Lifetime Contaminant Exposure and Hormone Profiles Data Privacy Day 2019 Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Dean's Academic Honor List Graduation List Academic Scholarship Awards List Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena