Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Health Topics Relationships Friendships Friendships College is a great opportunity to meet new people and form lasting friendships. Sometimes, it can be tricky to find friends on campus so here are a few tips to get you started. How Do I Meet People at Columbia? Stay positive. A positive attitude will attract others to you. Be patient. Great friendships take time to build. Relax and be yourself. Remember that you do not need to change who you are to fit in with new friends. Get involved. There are a variety of student groups on campus that can match your interests such as intramural sports, religious and spiritual groups, fraternities and sororities, and much more. Student groups on campus Fraternity and sorority life on campus Read campus newspapers and blogs: Columbia Daily Spectator, aka “The Spec” Bwog Columbia Student Blog, aka “Bwog” Check event listings for things to do: University Events Calendar Barnard Events Office of University Life Connect in class. Sit next to someone you don’t know and start a conversation. Ask about the assignments, the professor, or studying tips. Organize a study group for a great chance to connect with other students outside of class. Study outside of your room, in the lounge, or in the library and make friends on study breaks. Introduce yourself to people living on your floor or in your building. When eating, sit with someone who is sitting alone. Introduce yourself and ask if you can eat with them. Challenge yourself to meet one new person a day. Introduce your friends to other friends. This will help build your network and people may start introducing you to their friends. Take notice of flyers posted around campus for events and opportunities to join new student groups. What Do I Say / Do? Ask open-ended questions. This can initiate conversations and show that you are interested in getting to know someone. Don’t force yourself to say/do anything that feels uncomfortable or unsafe. Stay true to your morals, values and opinions. These are what make you unique and special. Celebrate and share these with others. Ask about classes or activities on campus. Use good listening skills when getting to know someone. Ask others about themselves. Do not get distracted by your cell phone or take over the conversation. Find common interests that could include hobbies, music, movies, TV shows, sports teams, etc. Stay connected via email, texts, Facebook or set up another time to meet in person. Relationship Advice Center for Student Advising Go Ask Alice! Relationships Archive Topics Relationships Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close