Skip to Content About SMU About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center Academics Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Continuing & Professional Education Study Abroad International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development The Guildhall Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour Athletics SMU Athletics Tickets Recreational Sports Campus Life Research Quick Links Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment SMU Store Meadows Museum George W. Bush Presidential Center Student Affairs The Second Century Campaign Virtual Tour Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More ﻿ Alumni Parents News Media Faculty/Staff ﻿ Apply ﻿ Give ﻿ Get Involved ﻿ Follow Us ﻿ ﻿ Twitter ﻿ Facebook ﻿ Instagram ﻿ LinkedIn ﻿ YouTube ﻿ Social Stream ﻿ Apply Give Get Involved ☰ About SMU ﻿ About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center A nationally ranked private university with seven degree-granting schools, SMU is a distinguished center for teaching and research located near the heart of Dallas. SMU’s 11,000 students benefit from small classes, research opportunities, leadership development, international study and innovative programs. The University is strengthened by its partnership with the Dallas region, a global center of commerce and culture. SMU students, faculty and alumni are changing the world through their chosen fields, civic engagement and service to society. Academics ﻿ Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Study Abroad Continuing & Professional Education International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development The Guildhall Teaching and research fuse into breakthrough experiences in one of the brightest academic communities in the world. Our 11:1 student-to-faculty ratio means students build strong relationships with outstanding faculty who champion their ambition and drive, whether it’s for tackling climate change, fighting cancer or pursuing another passion. Admission ﻿ Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour SMU’s singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We’d like to help you shape yours. Apply Now Schedule a Visit Athletics ﻿ SMU Athletics Tickets Recreational Sports SMU offers 16 nationally competitive sports programs and more than 30 individual and team intramural activities. We prepare student-athletes for life by equipping them with the knowledge and skills required to become valuable citizens and leaders in their communities. Campus Life Research Quick Links ﻿ Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment SMU Store Meadows Museum George W. Bush Presidential Center Student Affairs The Second Century Campaign Virtual Tour SMU is one of only nine universities affiliated with a presidential library. The George W. Bush Presidential Center (left) offers unique learning experiences to SMU students – including free admission to museum exhibits – plus research opportunities for faculty and scholars from around the world. Bush Center Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Southern Methodist University May 31, 2022 Bulletin of Southern Methodist University Volume CV Select a Catalog Bulletin of Southern Methodist University Volume CV 2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog 2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home Undergraduate Catalog 2021-2022 Graduate Catalog 2021-2022 Undergraduate Archived Catalogs Graduate Archived Catalogs My Catalog HELP Bulletin of Southern Methodist University Volume CV Bulletin of Southern Methodist University Volume CV Undergraduate and Graduate Catalogs 2021-2022 Official versions of SMU’s 2021-2022 catalogs and their addenda will be available in PDF form on the Registrar’s Office website in September. SMU’s online catalogs are designed to help you quickly locate and save details about the University’s undergraduate and graduate departments, degree programs, courses, faculty, campus information, and policies. Use the left-hand navigation bar to select the current undergraduate catalog or to select archived earlier editions. Here are some tips for using the new catalogs: The left-hand navigation bar provides links to the sections of the catalogs. Use the anchor links at the top of most pages to “jump” to the content you seek. The Course Descriptions filter is a great tool! Enter criteria such as course prefixes, numbers, keywords or phrases to identify courses of interest. The Catalog Search tool is also comprehensive. Use “Advanced Search” and include or exclude appropriate result types. The graduate catalog includes all eight graduate/professional schools. Need a hard copy of a page or section? Click the printer icon to open a plain version of the text, then print to a printer or to PDF. Follow this Icon Legend to learn how to navigate these catalogs. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) All catalogs © 2022 Southern Methodist University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).