Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Home About People Diversity Research Academics Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Aid Graduate Students Events Faculty Activities Visit Us Site Navigation Home About Internal Website People Regular Faculty Teaching Faculty Research Faculty Postdocs Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Administrative Staff Diversity Statement on anti-racism Related Research DIAP Committee Research Focus Areas Centers & Initiatives Academics Undergraduates Behavioral Decision Sciences Cognitive Science Cognitive Neuroscience Linguistics Psychology DUGs Honors Requirements Resources Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Aid Graduate Students CLPS Graduate Handbook Events CLPS Colloquium Series Cognition Seminar Developmental Brown Bag Speaker Series Ling Lang Lunch Perception Action Seminar Social Cognitive Science Seminar Speaker Series: "The Linguistic Expression of Racial and Ethnic Identity" Faculty Activities Authors Journal Editors Presidents International Awards Visit Us Prospective Graduate Students Director of Graduate Studies David Badre The Department of Cognitive, Linguistic, and Psychological Sciences (CLPS) is dedicated to the multidisciplinary study of mind, brain, behavior, and language. It offers three Ph.D. programs: in Cognitive Science, Linguistics, and Psychology. Ph.D. students are accepted by the department and choose one of the three programs during their first year. The CLPS department does not admit students for only a Master's degree, but students admitted to a Ph.D. program may receive an A.M. or Sc.M. degree en route to their Ph.D. The department also has no Ph.D. or Master’s programs in Clinical, Counseling, School, or Applied Psychology. Graduate Scholarships & Aid Applications For general information about each Ph.D. program and specific program requirements, see: Cognitive Science Ph.D. Program Linguistics Ph.D. Program Psychology Ph.D. Program Deadline The deadline to apply for the '22-'23 academic year is December 1, 2021. Fit A critical element in judging applications is our assessment of the fit between the applicant’s intellectual and research interests and those of one or more faculty members. We strongly recommend that, before applying, you carefully read through this departmental website, giving particular attention to the faculty research descriptions. We invite you to correspond directly with individual faculty members before applying, but this is not required. Please note that we cannot estimate the probability of being admitted before you have applied. Our admission decisions are based on the complete application, which is considered by multiple members of the faculty. Selectivity Admission to the CLPS Ph.D. programs is highly selective. About 15 percent of applicants are invited for interviews, and about half of the interviewees receive offers of admission. Accepted students receive five years of financial support (tuition and stipend). Support Students accepted into one of the CLPS Ph.D. programs are guaranteed five years of financial support contingent on satisfactory progress toward the degree. Support includes full-time tuition, a health fee, and a stipend to cover basic living expenses during the academic year. The department also typically provides summer stipends if the student continues to work on research over the summer. Support normally comes in the form of teaching or research assistantships, and students are encouraged to apply for their own fellowships (e.g., NSF) before or after being admitted to the program. Research Areas in CLPS The department has multiple research focus areas, which cut across our three Ph.D. programs. They include: Behavioral Neuroscience/Comparative Neural bases and computational models of: interval timing, emotional development and dysfunction, auditory perception, flow sensing, memory, and higher cognitive functions; neuro-development, plasticity, and regeneration; canid communication and social cognition. Faculty: Buchsbaum, Burwell, Colwill, Simmons Cognitive Neuroscience The neural basis of cognitive functions such as attention, perception, learning, memory, emotional regulation, executive control, decision making, language. Faculty: Badre, Burwell, FeldmanHall, Festa, Frank, Heindel, Serre, Shenhav, Song, Watanabe Development In human and animal models, visual attention, learning and memory, causal reasoning, pretend play, language, perception. Faculty: Buchsbaum, Feiman, Festa, Heindel, Morgan, Sobel Higher-Level Cognition Human memory, learning, and cognitive control; inductive inference, causal reasoning, and decision-making; moral reasoning, social cognition and theory of mind and their development. Faculty: Badre, Buchsbaum, Feiman, FeldmanHall, Frank, Heindel, Krueger, Malle, Shenhav, Sloman, Sobel, Spoehr Neural and Computational Models of Cognition and Language Neural and computational models of processes such as motor control, cognitive control, vision, categorization, learning, reasoning, and language. Faculty: Badre, Buchsbaum, Domini, Frank, Morgan, Serre, Sloman Perception & Action Computational, psychophysical and ecological approaches to the study of perceiving shape and motion, recognizing objects and scenes, processing auditory events, attention, perceptual learning, and controlling action. Faculty: Domini, Serre, Song, Simmons, Warren, Watanabe, Welch Phonetics & Phonology Acoustic properties of phonetic categories of speech; physiological basis of articulation and perception; phonetic and phonological theories, phonetic/ phonological interface. Faculty: Cohen Priva, Morgan Psycholinguistics & Language Processing The experimental study of language acquisition and language use across linguistic domains and the relationship between experimental and theoretical approaches to language. Faculty: AnderBois, Cohen Priva, Feiman, Jacobson, Morgan Semantics & Syntax Formal semantics, the syntax-semantics interface, lexical semantics, the interaction of information structure, discourse, and pragmatics with semantics and syntax, categorial grammar and related theories of syntax. Faculty: AnderBois, Feiman, Jacobson Social Psychology Social cognition, theory of mind, moral judgment, perception of personality, person-situation interactions, self-image, social projection, intergroup perception, strategic behavior. Faculty: Boykin, FeldmanHall, Krueger, Malle Facilities CLPS is housed in a renovated and historic 36,000 square foot building with state-of-the art laboratories, classrooms, and formal & informal meeting spaces. Department Equipment & Facilities Shared Within CLPS 64-channel Event-Related Potential ERP/EEG system Brain stimulation facility (TMSm, tDCS/tACS) Near Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS) system EyeLink 1000 Eye Tracker Large suite of individual testing rooms for computer-presented experiments Various small equipment such as colorimeters, video cameras, large-format poster printer Brown Shared Facilities Available to CLPS Researchers Research-dedicated 3.0T MRI/fMRI system High-performance parallel computing cluster with 7000+ compute cores Rodent Neurodevelopmental Behavioral Testing Facility Immersive virtual reality visualization room Large-scale research file storage services & Internet2 research network connections Additional Equipment Used in CLPS Laboratories Virtual Environment Navigation Lab (VENLab), one of the world's largest ambulatory virtual reality facilities Wide-area motion capture system for full-body kinematics High-resolution eye-trackers and mobile eye tracker Multiple laboratories for behavioral research with children and adults; individually, in dyads or in groups; with digital audio-video recording, processing, and production Multiple laboratories for animal behavior research Graduate Program Handbook The CLPS Graduate Handbook is available as a PDF download. This document is full of detailed information about our graduate programs, including: Research areas and faculty Support and commitments Requirements and expectations Ethical standards Graduate resources Download Program Handbook Careers in CLPS If you are interested in pursuing a career in cognitive science, cognitive neuroscience, or neuroscience, please visit the CareerLab website. There, you will directly find a page with links to opportunities related to careers in our related fields. Learn More Academics Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Aid Graduate Students Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences Brown University Box 1821 Metcalf Research Building 190 Thayer Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2727 Fax: 401-863-2255 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top