Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Things To Do » Intramural Sports » Intramural Sports Rules » Intramural Sports Handbook Set Navigation title in component Fitness Classes Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports Intramural Sports Rules Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Intramural Sports Handbook Mission and Values The University of Cincinnati Intramural Sports program offers various activities for students, faculty, and staff. The program offers team, individual, and dual events for men, women, and coed teams in a variety of leagues and tournaments. The mission of the University of Cincinnati Intramural Sports Program is to: Provide students, faculty, and staff with the opportunity to participate in a variety of competitive recreational sports in a fun, safe environment. Provide quality facilities and equipment. Promote healthy lifestyles. Provide social opportunities. Contact Info Office Hours right arrow down arrow Monday –Friday, 9am-5pm* *Should you wish to meet with an Intramural administrator, please e-mail intramural@uc.edu to set up an appointment. Phone right arrow down arrow 513-556-0604 Weather Hotline right arrow down arrow 513-556-4FUN Email right arrow down arrow intramural@uc.edu Websites right arrow down arrow http://www.uc.edu/intramurals http://www.imleagues.com/UC Professional Staff right arrow down arrow Mike Dickinson, Coordinator of Intramural Sports 513-556-5729 michael.dickinson@uc.edu Drew Salvador, Assistant Director of Intramural Sports 513-556-0603 drew.salvador@uc.edu Rules Section I - Assumption of Risk right arrow down arrow You may suffer physical and/or mental injury from participating in Intramural Sports. There are certain risks of injury that are inherent to participation in sports and recreational activities. These types of injuries may be minor or serious and may result from the actions or inactions of themselves or others. By choosing to participate in Intramural Sports, you do so at your own risk. It is understood that most activities require a certain level of fitness and health, and that each person has a different capacity for participating in these activities. Participants of Intramural Sports are highly encouraged to have a physical examination and procure health insurance prior to play. UC Campus Recreation does not provide health insurance. Intramural Supervisors undergo concussion recognition training. In the instance a participant is exhibiting any signs or symptoms of a concussion as a result of a head injury sustained during intramural play, he or she will be removed from the activity. This individual must provide a physician’s note clearing the individual to play by a specific date. This note may be e-mailed to intramural@uc.edu or faxed to 513-556-0601. Section II – Notice of Non Discrimination right arrow down arrow The University of Cincinnati does not discriminate on the basis of disability, race, color, religion, national origin, ancestry, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sex, age, sexual orientation, veteran status or gender identity and expression in its programs and activities. The university does not tolerate discrimination, harassment, or retaliation on these bases and takes steps to ensure that students, employees, and third parties are not subject to a hostile environment in University programs or activities. The university responds promptly and effectively to allegations of discrimination, harassment, and retaliation. It promptly conducts investigations and takes appropriate action, including disciplinary action, against individuals found to have violated its policies, as well as provides appropriate remedies to complainants and the campus community. The university takes immediate action to end a hostile environment if one has been created, prevent its recurrence, and remedy the effects of any hostile environment on affected members of the campus community. Section III - Eligibility right arrow down arrow 1. General Eligibility To be eligible for intramural participation, each player must satisfy both of the following: Be a current University of Cincinnati student (taking classes in the current semester of intramural play), faculty, or staff member. Possess an active membership to the University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center. Full-time, main campus students automatically receive a CRC membership through full payment of the student life fee. Part-time students, co-op students, branch students, faculty, and staff do not automatically pay the full student life fee, and therefore need to purchase a UC Campus Recreation membership to become eligible for intramural play. Find out more about membership rates. 2. Gender For gender-specific leagues, participants may participate in the league that best matches their gender identity. For coed leagues, an individual’s gender identity will be applied to any gender-specific rules or player ratio requirements. 3. Playing on Multiple Teams Participants may participate on one (1) coed and one (1) non-coed team per sport, per season. Substituting for another team in the same league is prohibited. Offending players and teams may be subject to suspensions and/or forfeits. Example: Allowed A male participant participates on both a men’s competitiveand coed intramural soccer team in the same season. Not Allowed A male participant participates on both a men’s competitive and men’s recreationalintramural soccer team in the same season 4. Club Sport Team Players A club sport player is defined as one who has practiced or played in a contest for a UC competitive club sport team within the same academic year. A club sport player participating in the same or a similar intramural sport must choose the highest level of competition offered. For sports with five (5) or more players on the playing field at one time, a team is limited to two (2) club sport participants (in the same or similar sport) on its’ roster. For sports with four (4) or less players on the playing field at one time, a team is limited to one (1) club sport participant (in the same or similar sport) on its’ roster. Example: A female UC club volleyball player may not participate on a coed recreationalintramural volleyball team. She may only participate on a coed competitiveintramural volleyball team if she wishes to play in the coed league. Example: After the club soccer season ends, a graduating men’s club soccer player is removed from the roster in December. Since intramural soccer begins the following February, this individual will still be considered a club soccer player and will count towards the roster limit (two competitive club soccer players per roster) for any intramural soccer team. 5. Varsity Athletes Current varsity athletes are not allowed to play on an intramural team of the same or similar sport. Former varsity athletes must sit out 365 days from last appearing on a varsity roster to be eligible to play in the same or similar sport. Former varsity athletes participating in the same or a similar intramural sport must compete in the highest competition level offered. Teams are allowed one (1) former varsity athlete per team. Redshirt/Prop 48 players are not eligible to participate in the same or similar sport. 6. Professional Athletes Any player who is declared a professional is ineligible from participating in a like or similar intramural sport. *During the regular season, any player in violation of any eligibility rule may be suspended. The Intramural Department may also choose to forfeit affected games of teams with players in violation of these rules. Intramural Sports reserves the right to modify or issue any ruling that is deemed essential to the success of the program. Section VI – Player Identification right arrow down arrow 1. Valid Identification All participants are required to present a valid UC Bearcat Card at pre-game check in for all games. Players may present another photo ID on a twice per season basis, provided the player is already on the printed roster. Players who have not signed in with the team during the season and do not have a UC ID, may present another photo ID to the Campus Recreation Center Member Services Desk and receive a hand stamp indicating their eligibility. Players without a valid ID and hand stamp will be ineligible to play during that contest. 2. False Identification Participants caught using false identification will incur the following consequences: The ID will be confiscated and given to Public Safety. The participant will be asked to give his/her name to the intramural supervisor. If he/she does not provide his/her name, the captain will be asked for the information. If the captain will not provide the player’s name, he or she will be ejected from the game. The team will be put on probation and any further instances will result in expulsion from the league. The incident will be referred to the Judicial Affairs Office. Section VII – Team Captain Responsibilities right arrow down arrow Captains play an integral part in the Intramural Sports program. Listed below are responsibilities that captains are expected to perform throughout the season 1. Pre-Season Responsibilities Pay for the team online or in person. Register the team on IMLeagues.com/UC. Complete the online captain’s quiz by the appropriate deadline. Invite players to the team and have the minimum number of players confirmed on IMLeagues by the season start date. Review Intramural Handbook and sport rules. Communicate this information to all team members. Notify team members of scheduled games. 2. Season Responsibilities Serve as the team’s spokesperson at games. Protests may only be initiated by team captains. Sign the score sheet after each intramural contest. By signing the score sheet the captain confirms that the information on the score sheet is correct. Ensure all players are eligible for participation. Check schedules online weekly and notify teams of any changes. Verify that scores were inputted correctly and notify the Intramural office of any errors. Maintain an open line of communication with the intramural office. For playoffs, submit a playoff time conflict form (optional) and pay the reinstatement fee if the team has one regular season forfeit. Section VIII – Payment & Registration right arrow down arrow 1. Overview Due to limited facility availability, entries are accepted on a first-come, first-serve basis. Registration consists of two parts (payment and IMLeagues registration) which must be completed in order to guarantee a team’s spot. Please note a team’s payment reserves its’ spot in the desired division. Registering on IMLeagues prior to payment does not hold a spot for a team. 2. Step One – Pay the team fee A captain may pay for a team either online or in person in the CRC Administrative Office. Online Log in to myMemberServices and click on Program Registration. If you do not have an account, visit the new account page, enter your M number, and follow the prompts to create an account. Click on Intramurals. Click on View Programs under the sport you would like to register for. Click on Add to Cart for the division(s) you would like to pay for. Click on the cart program at the top of the page, and follow the prompts to submit payment. You will receive a confirmation e-mail from intramural@uc.edu within two (2) business days with further instructions. In Person Weekdays, 9:00a.m.-5:00p.m. CRC Administrative Office We accept cash, credit/debit, check (made to University of Cincinnati), and Bearcat Card. 3. Step Two – Register the team on IMLeagues Following registration, captains will need to register their teams online in a timely manner on IMLeagues. This website is used primarily for scheduling purposes. Team Names - Campus Recreation reserves the right to prohibit or modify team names which it deems to be in poor taste, derogatory, profane, offensive, or misleading to other teams (i.e. “Bye Week” or “No game”). 4. Step Three – Complete the online captain’s meeting and pass the quiz by noon of the season start date. After registering your team on IMLeagues, go to your team’s home page. At the top of the page will be a light red bar that says, “The team captain must pass a quiz for this team. To take the quiz Click Here.” Select Click Here. Watch the video and complete the quiz. Following the quiz, your score will be displayed. You must correctly answer at least six of eight questions to pass. If you did not pass, there will be a Re-take Quiz option. The team captain must pass the quiz prior to noon on the season start date. Failure to do so will render the team ineligible for playoffs. If you are listed as the captain of multiple teams during the same season (i.e. Fall I 2018) on IMLeagues, you only need to pass the quiz for one team. However, if you are the captain in another season (i.e. Fall II 2018), you must take the Fall II season quiz 5. Step Four – Have the minimum number of players CONFIRMED on your roster by noon on the season start date. Required Number of Players # of Players Sports Two 3-on-3 Basketball Three 4-on-4 Flag Football, 4-on-4 Volleyball, Wallyball Four 5-on-5 Basketball, 6-on-6 Volleyball, Dodgeball, Futsal Five 7-on-7 Flag Football, 7-on-7 Soccer, Ultimate Frisbee Eight 11-on-11 Soccer, Softball Your team must have the required number of players CONFIRMED (see table above) on your roster by the season start date. Captain: How to Invite a Player. In IMLeagues, go to your team’s home page. In the middle of the page is a roster box. Select Invite. Enter your team members’ e-mail addresses to invite them or you can search using their first/last names. The player MUST ACCEPT the invitation to be confirmed and added to the roster. Captain: How to Confirm/Deny Player Add Requests. In IMLeagues, go to your team’s home page. If players have requested to be added, there will be a light red box near the top of the page that says, “Pending Request! You have # request to join your team. View.” Select View. Select Confirm or Deny for each pending player. You can also send them a message. Player: How to Request to be Added to a Team. In IMLeagues, click on the sport/league, division, and team name of the team you wish to join. To the right of the team name, select Join Team. The captain MUST ACCEPT the request for the player to be confirmed and added to the roster. Failure to have the minimum number of players confirmed will result in the team losing two (2) sportsmanship points for your first game. Sportsmanship ratings affect a team’s ability to make playoffs AND playoff seeding. 6. Rosters Players that sign in prior to each game during the regular season will automatically be added to the roster. Captains may choose to add players throughout the season online at www.imleagues.com/UC. See individual sport rules for maximum number of players per team. Players may not be added to rosters once playoffs have begun. Section IX – League Descriptions right arrow down arrow 1. Types of Leagues Coed: Men and women participate together with required ratios of men to women. Greek (Fraternity/Sorority): Only active undergraduate members and pledges of a recognized fraternity or sorority, as determined by the Student Activities and Leadership Development Office, may compete.oFraternities and sororities will be limited to one fraternity/sorority team in the Greek league for each sport to allow each Greek organization equal opportunity to participate in the league. Open: A special type of league with no specific coed rules. Men and women can participate in this league with no required ratios of men to women. In addition, teams comprised of all males or all females may compete in these leagues. This league is onlyavailable in a few sports. Men’s/Women’s: Gender-specific leagues. In the instance a gender-specific league is not offered, individuals of that gender may participate in the other gender’s league. 2. Competition Level League play may be divided into two competition levels (competitive and recreational) for leagues within specific sports that historically have a substantial amount of teams. Competitive Designed to meet the needs of the highly skilled, highly competitive participant. This league places emphasis on the competitive aspect of sport for those participants who have competed in the sport at an advanced skill level. Recreational Designed to meet the needs of the participant who emphasizes participation, fitness, socializing and fun. Participants may range from highly skilled to beginners who wish to play in a recreational atmosphere. 3. Playoff Reclassification The intramural department reserves the right to place recreational league teams in competitive division playoffs if, in its’ opinion, the indicated team is performing at a significantly higher skill level than the rest of the recreational league teams. Section X – Free Agents right arrow down arrow Individuals that do not have a team but would like to join one are considered free agents. Individuals wanting to be picked up by a team should visit www.imleagues.com/UC to sign up for free agency. Captains may login and view free agents by league and contact possible players form there. Section XI – Team Representative Meetings right arrow down arrow Beginning in 2018, the in-person team representative meetings have been replaced by an online captain’s meeting and quiz. This quiz must be passed by the season start date. See section VIII, item four. Section XII – Forfeits, Defaults, Late Penalties, and Reinstatement Fees right arrow down arrow 1. Forfeits A forfeit is declared when a team or individual fails to appear or is not prepared to begin play with the minimum number of players 10 minutes after the scheduled game time. A double forfeit is declared when both teams or individuals fail to appear or are not prepared to begin play with the minimum number of players 10 minutes after the scheduled game time. A forfeiting team will receive a sportsmanship score of 2.0. 2. Reinstatement Fee Teams that forfeit once are not eligible for playoffs. However, a team may erase one forfeit and become eligible by paying a $20 reinstatement fee by the deadline established each season. Teams that forfeit twice (regardless if they have already paid the reinstatement fee that season) are dropped from league play and are ineligible for playoffs. Furthermore, the reinstatement fee will not be refunded. 3. Late Penalties If a team shows up with the minimum number of players one (1) to nine (9) minutes after the scheduled game time, it will be assessed a late penalty. If there is a coin toss at the beginning of the game, the non-offending team will automatically win the coin toss. The opposing captain may elect NOT to assess the late penalties. However, the number of minutes late will be deducted from the first half 5or total time in sports that are timed. Please consult individual sport rules for the minimum number of individuals required to begin play and the specific late penalties. 4. Defaults A default provides a team with an opportunity to cancel a game for a loss and not be assessed a forfeit. In addition, teams that default will receive a 3.0 sportsmanship rating. A team is limited to one default per sport, per season. A team captain must notify Campus Recreation via e-mail: intramural@uc.edu at least 48 hours before the scheduled game. Teams defaulting Sunday contests must notify the Intramural Office by noon on the Friday before. Default requests received within 48 hours of the scheduled game time will result in a team loss and forfeit. Section XIII - Schedules right arrow down arrow 1. Regular Season Schedules All league schedules will be posted on IMLeagues. Captains will be e-mailed following registration once the regular season schedules have been published. Following each game, it is the captain’s responsibility to review game results online for accuracy. 2. Playoff Schedules Playoff brackets will be posted on IMLeagues. Captains will be e-mailed once playoff brackets are published. It is the captain's responsibility to check the brackets online for information regarding his/her team's next game. Captains should read brackets carefully, as there may be doubleheaders or games on consecutive days. 3. Pre-season Scrimmages Intramural teams have the opportunity to schedule a pre-season scrimmage to help their team get ready for the regular season. Preseason scrimmages are also used as formal, hands-on training for intramural sports officials. A captain can sign up for a scrimmage when paying for a team. Scrimmages are available on a first-come, first-serve basis. A team that forfeits a scheduled scrimmage will be deducted two (2) sportsmanship points from its first regular season game. 4. Schedules & Reschedules Athletic facilities are shared between Athletics, Intramural Sports, Club Sports, and other university and non-university groups. Periodically, schedules need to be modified because of changes in athletic practices, contests, or events outside of our control. For this reason, Campus Recreation may have to change game times and/or opponents. Schedule changes may also occur when teams are added or dropped from league competition. Every attempt will be made to ensure that teams are given reasonable notification of schedule changes. Section XIV - Equipment right arrow down arrow 1. Jewelry Across all intramural sports, jewelry is prohibited. This includes, but is not limited to earrings, bracelets, watches, wearable fitness trackers, necklaces, billed hats, and rings. Medical jewelry is allowed, but must be taped down. 2. Suitable Attire For the safety of all participants, athletic clothing and footwear is required. Prohibited items include, but is not limited to: jeans, cargo pants/shorts, skirts, loafers, open-toed shoes, and boots. Indoor sports require non-marking footwear. For outdoor field sports, detachable or metal cleats are prohibited. 3. Casts and Braces Any casts, braces, or other protective equipment must be padded and secure. 4. Sport Equipment & Jerseys Unless specifically mentioned in the rules, UC Intramural Sports provides sport equipment and jerseys. Teams may elect to bring their own jerseys. Numbers must be at least four inches in height. For basketball jerseys, all digits on each jersey must be between 0 and 5 (i.e. 63, 74, and 88 are examples of illegal numbers for basketball). 5. Sport-Specific Considerations Flag Football: Articles of clothing with pockets are prohibited (i.e. shorts or pants with pockets, hoodies with pockets, etc.). Pockets cannot be taped shut, zippered, or turned inside out. Basketball: Mouth guards are highly recommended, but not provided. Soccer and Futsal: Shin guards are highly recommended, but not provided Softball: Gloves are not provided Section XV - Inclement Weather right arrow down arrow In the event of inclement weather, participants should call the Intramural Hotline at (513) 556-4FUN for game updates. Cancellations will be made as soon as possible. Notification will also be e-mailed to the captain’s e-mail address. Captains will also be e-mailed once games are rescheduled. Section XVI - Sportsmanship right arrow down arrow 1. Sportsmanship Ratings In order to qualify for playoffs, teams must obtain a 3.0 or higher sportsmanship average during the regular season. Sportmanship Rating Score Player & Team Behavior Penalty 4.0 Always respectful to officials and opposing team. No complaining or arguing. No unsportsmanlike penalties. 3.0 Usually respectful to officials and opposing team. Minimal arguing or complaining about officials. Maximum one (1) unsportsmanlike penalty. 2.0 Moderately disrespectful to officials and/or opposing team. Moderate arguing or complaints about officials. Multiple unsportsmanlike penalties OR Maximum one (1) ejected player 1.0 Frequently disrespectful to officials and/or opposing team. Frequent arguing or complaints about officials. Any contact or provocation of officials. Multiple ejected players or one (1) player involved in a fight. 0.0 Player(s) out of control. Excessively disrespectful to officials and/or opposing team. Excessive arguing or complaints about officials.* Multiple players involved in a fight. Destruction or abuse of property. * A team that receives a "0" rating will be suspended from competition until its captain meets with the Assistant Director or Coordinator of Intramural Sports. The team may be removed from competition. Officials may choose to give or remove additional tenths depending on instances of good or poor sportsmanship during the contest. Please note that these are just guidelines and final interpretation on sportsmanship is determined by the Assistant Director or Coordinator of Intramural Sports. 2. Ejections Any player receiving a red card during an intramural contest shall be immediately ejected and suspended until he/she meets with the Assistant Director or Coordinator of Intramural Sports. The suspended person may face further suspensions. It should be noted that any disciplinary action resulting from intramural participation will equally affect Campus Recreation Center privileges. Any team receiving two red cards (three technical fouls in basketball) in a single game will immediately forfeit that game. Identification of players and spectators is considered the responsibility of the captain. Captains who fail to cooperate by refusing to reveal a person's identity will receive a red card. Team captains who cannot or will not control their players and/or spectators will be issued a yellow card. If a violation is recurrent or flagrant, the captain will be given a red card and be ejected from the game. 3. Sportsmanship Ratings during Playoffs During playoffs, a winning team must score a 3.0 sportsmanship rating or higher to automatically advance to the next round. If a team receives between a 2.0 and 2.9 rating during playoffs, the Intramural Office will review the previous game along with sportsmanship ratings from the regular season to determine if the winning team advances or not. A team that receives lower than a "2.0" rating during playoffs will be immediately eliminated from post-season competition. The game in which the poor rating was earned will be automatically awarded to the opposing team. The team which was disqualified may be subject to further disciplinary action. Any player receiving a red sportsmanship card will be disqualified from any remaining playoff games. Campus Recreation reserves the right to enforce additional penalties extending to subsequent seasons against players receiving yellow or red sportsmanship cards in playoff competition. 4. Unsportsmanlike Penalties/Fouls Unsportsmanlike penalties or ejections may be administered before, during, or after an intramural contest. 5. Individual Sportsmanship All unsportsmanlike penalties and ejections received by an individual will be tracked throughout the year using the point system below. Receiving an unsportsmanlike foul or penalty = 1 point Being ejected = 2 points An intramural participant that accumulates: 3 points in a semester = Individual must meet with an administrator to be reinstated. 4 points in a semester = Suspended for the remainder of the semester. Individual must meet with an administrator to be reinstated. 6 points in a calendar year = Suspended indefinitely; one year minimum. Individual must meet with an administrator to be reinstated. 6. Intimidation or Threats Any team or individual that threatens or tries to intimidate an official, opponent, or Campus Recreation employee will be immediately ejected from the game and could be suspended from all intramural activities for the remainder of their academic career at the University of Cincinnati. Each incident will be handled on case by case basis by the Assistant Director or Coordinator of Intramural Sports and Associate Director of Programs. Additionally, the incident will be referred to the Judicial Affairs Office. Criminal charges may be filed. 7. Fighting Any team or player that participates in a fight before, during, or after an intramural game will be immediately ejected from the facility and suspended from all intramural activities for up to the remainder of their academic career at the University of Cincinnati. Each incident will be handled on a case by case basis by the Assistant Director or Coordinator of Intramural Sports. Additionally, the incident will be referred to the Judicial Affairs Office. Criminal charges may be filed. 8. Alcohol/Controlled Substances Illegal use of drugs or alcohol is prohibited under the Student Code of Conduct and Ohio Law. No individual will be allowed to participate in any activity if it is suspected that he/she is under the influence of drugs or alcohol. Spectators and players are prohibited from bringing to and/or consuming alcohol at an activity site. Individuals violating this rule shall be removed immediately. Any participant removed from a game due to a violation of the alcohol policy shall be suspended from that team's next scheduled contest much like the penalty for an ejected player. Any team that has a participant removed for a violation of the alcohol policy, or does not cooperate fully with Campus Recreation staff in resolving alcohol violations by spectators associated with their team, or is found possessing or consuming alcohol at an activity site shall automatically receive an unsatisfactory sportsmanship rating for that contest and may be expelled for the remainder of the season. 9. Tobacco The use of tobacco during any Intramural Sports activity is strictly prohibited. A team, participant, or spectator caught using tobacco products at an Intramural Sports event will be immediately asked to leave the venue. The game in which the violator is participating (playing/watching) will not resume until that person removes him/herself. Failure of the team to assist the staff in helping to remove the violator may result in a forfeit of the contest. Smoking and use of tobacco products is prohibited on UC’s campus. 10. Gambling Consistent with Ohio Revised Code, gambling in any form is not permitted on university premises. Such activity includes, but is not limited to, betting on intramural games, football parlays, lotteries, or card games involving the exchange of money. 11. Sunflower Seeds Discarding sunflower seeds on intramural facilities is prohibited. Offenders may be subjected to ejections, suspensions, and/or bans. Offending teams will have sportsmanship points subtracted. 12. Abusing Equipment or Facilities Players defacing, abusing, or wrongly using UC property, including athletic facilities or intramural equipment, will be immediately ejected from the contest and escorted from the premises. In addition, players will be suspended, their entry fee will not be refunded, 8and the incident will be referred to the Judicial Affairs Office. Teams leaving trash at intramural facilities will be subject to lower sportsmanship ratings, suspensions, and/or bans. Section XVII - Protests right arrow down arrow A team captain may protest only two specific instances: 1. Rule Interpretation To protest rule interpretation, the team captain must immediately notify an official when the incident occurs. If a captain fails to notify an official of his/her intent to protest before play continues, then the team forfeits its right to lodge a protest on that situation. Upon notification, the official will suspend play so the Intramural Supervisor can be brought to the game site to make a ruling prior to the continuation of play. A game shall not resume until a decision has been rendered. The decision of the Intramural Sports Supervisor is final. An official's judgment call cannot be protested. 2. Player Eligibility If it is believed that a player has violated any eligibility rule, a team captain may fill out an incident report with the Intramural Supervisor detailing what player's eligibility is being questioned. The Assistant Director or Coordinator of Intramural Sports will investigate and rule on the player's eligibility. If the captain is correct, appropriate action against the player in question will be taken. Player eligibility protests occurring during the regular season must be filed within 48 hours from the game's completion. Player eligibility protests during the playoffs must be filed within 24 hours of the end of the contest. If a playoff game that you are protesting an ineligible player is played on a Thursday (during playoffs), the protest must be filed by noon the next day. You may send a protest to intramural@uc.edu or leave a message at 513-556-0603 within the parameters listed. Section XVIII - Playoffs right arrow down arrow 1. Qualifying For Playoffs Teams must satisfy the following criteria to become eligible for playoffs: Possess a 3.0 average sportsmanship rating or higher at the conclusion of the regular season. Have no forfeits from the regular season OR have paid the $20 reinstatement fee for one forfeit. Complete the online captain’s quiz and pass the online quiz by noon of the season start date. 2. Playoff Rosters All team rosters are locked at the end of the regular season. Players not on the printed roster will be ineligible to participate in playoff contests. 3. Playoff Time Conflict Forms Due to leagues playing on multiple nights, a team’s playoff game may not be scheduled during its’ regular season night of play. As a result, captains will be e-mailed out playoff time conflict forms prior to the start of playoffs. Conflict forms must be filled out and submitted properly. The Intramural Office will try to accommodate all schedules as best as possible, but it is not guaranteed that all requests will be honored. Playoff contests will not be rescheduled for any reason other than a valid playoff time conflict form. 4. Playoff Sportsmanship During playoffs, teams must receive a 3.0 or higher to automatically move on. Teams receiving between a 2.0 and 2.9 will be reviewed by the Assistant Director or Coordinator who will make a decision to either advance or not advance the team. Teams receiving under a 2.0 rating will not advance. In all playoff sportsmanship cases, the opposing team will automatically advance if they were rated a 3.0 or higher. Section XIX – Officiating Services right arrow down arrow To request intramural officials for outside events, please contact the Coordinator of Intramural Sports. You may also e-mail intramural@uc.edu. Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top