Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Faculty Our residents and fellows are mentored by faculty who practice at the highest level of their profession. Read more... Residency Program Brown's Residency Program in Orthopaedics has a 78-year history of training superlative doctors and researchers. Read more... Research Orthopaedics at Brown combines medicine and cutting-edge scientific research. Read more... Providence Providence boasts a diverse population, and a thriving art and culinary scene. Read more... Orthopaedics at Brown The Department of Orthopaedics is one of the four oldest fracture services in the country. Watch the video... Welcome to the Department of Orthopaedics at Brown The Department of Orthopaedics at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University is one of the four oldest fracture services in the country and its residency program has been in existence since 1938. With this long-standing history comes a tradition of producing talented surgeons, empathic physicians, and astute scientists. The full-time faculty in the Department represent all subspecialties of orthopaedic surgery. Their passion for providing excellent care and teaching the next generation of surgeons is beyond comparison. We invite you to browse the website to learn more about what makes Brown Orthopaedics the best in the country. Home About Us News Faculty Residency Program Fellowship Programs Research Laboratories Brown Medical Students MS4 Visiting Students Diversity and Inclusion Print this Page Share this Page The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift Quick Links University Orthopaedics