Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Diversity Initiatives & Resource Centers African American Resource Center Main Navigation About AARC Show Extended History Meet the Staff Resources & Services Show Extended Campus & Community Student Organizations Black History Month Pan-Afrikan Recognition Celebration E-News APARC LCRC LGBTQRC TDRC Our Mission The Mission of the African American Resource Center (AARC) is to provide an opportunity for individuals to pursue the academic, research, and cultural interests of African Americans. It provides resources, services, programs and events that focus on the total integration and success of African American students. Who We Are The AARC complements the University’s efforts in building a sense of community. It also serves as a tool for empowerment of the diverse segments of the University’s population through increased accessibility to scholarly research, cultural awareness education, and collaborative activities. Connect With Us! Open Mondays - Fridays, 8a - 5p Location: Pollak Library South 180, Room 182 Phone: (657) 278-3230 Email: aarc@fullerton.edu Social Media: Facebook | Instagram CSUF "BLACK EXCELLENCE" VIDEO Filmed by: @ezephotography &gt;Your browser does not support frames. This site is maintained by African American Resource Center. Last Published 4/11/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact aarc@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.