Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Controllers Office Payroll Office Controllers Office Payroll Office The Payroll Office handles the processing and payment of all payrolls at Brown. This includes the Monthly, Bi-week and Weekly payrolls. The office also has responsibility for transmission of taxes, filing of federal and state payroll reports, and the production of employee W-2 and 1042S forms. The Payroll Office is located on the fourth floor of South Street Landing (350 Eddy Street.) Any questions regarding payroll should be sent to [email protected], or 401-863-2361. PLEASE NOTE: Recent tax law changes will be reflected in employee's 2020 paychecks. The employee share of OASDI (Social Security) is 6.2% with a maximum taxable wage of $137,700. Medicare payroll tax is 1.45% with an additional 0.9% for those with wages over $200,000. Federal and State tax tables have changed, which could result in a change in Federal and State income tax withheld. Please consult your tax advisor with any questions you may have about how these tax changes will affect your personal financial situation. Home Staff Workday Year End Schedule General Accounting Foreign National Information Accounts Payable Travel Management Payroll Deadlines and Paydates General Information/FAQ Processing Payments to Students Payroll Garnishments Brown Business Center Policies Forms Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box J Providence, RI 02912 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Useful Links WebServices BrownSites Documentation