Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America Home About Events News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Site Navigation Home About History Staff Advisors Postdoctoral, Faculty, and Graduate Fellows Visiting Faculty Practitioner Fellows Message from the Director Location & Contact Information Annual Reports CSREA Q&A with Tricia Rose Events Past Events Co-sponsorship Requests Featured Events Around Campus Signature Series Underlying Conditions The Third Rail Series Writing for a Broken World What I Am Thinking About Now "First Works" Series Race at the Center of the Humanities New Book Talks STEM Conversation Series Dr. Jean Shim Yun Lecture Series Graduate Professionalization Workshop Series Critical Conversations Summer Reading Series News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA Archiving the Social Life of Mass Incarceration The United States incarcerates the world’s largest prison population, caging, surveilling and supervising more people than any other nation. The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA seeks to curate a comprehensive archive of mass incarceration in the United States–centering and preserving the narratives and writings of those individuals (including family and community members) who have been impacted by the criminal justice system. It is through their oral testimony and writings that we understand the “living history” of mass incarceration and its legacies. Ultimately, this humanities lab project is an important act of historical preservation, capturing the first-person accounts of mass incarceration for generations to come and centering the voices of those who have been impacted. CALL FOR SUBMISSIONS If you are incarcerated in the United States or have previously experienced incarceration, we ask you to write a letter sharing your story that addresses one or all of the following questions: What do you need the world to know about U.S. prisons, jails, probation, and/or parole? What about your experience has been left out of the news and narrative of mass incarceration? Acknowledgment of Consent I understand that, by sharing my story, I am consenting to have the story placed in the website repository for Brown University’s Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA and made available to the public. My story will be anonymous unless I clearly state in my story: “I want my name shared with my story.” Anyone will be able to read, watch, or listen to my story and to use what they read, see, or hear for any purpose. Personally identifying information about other people, the prison, or anyone else will be removed from my story by Brown University staff. I will never be able to ask Brown University to remove my story from the website repository. I am also waiving and releasing Brown University from any claims or lawsuits of any kind for any reason related to my story. I confirm that I am at least 18 years old and I am freely and knowingly submitting my story. I understand and agree to the terms explained above and want to participate. How to Contribute to the Archive Please send your story to the following email address: [email protected] OR send a letter to the following address: The Mass Incarceration Lab Box #362 11 S Angell St Providence, RI 02906 Your submission will be archived in the Special Collections of the John Hay Library at Brown University as well as digitized by the Center for Digital Scholarship. Brown University students taking SOC 1116 Criminal Courts and the Law in an Era of Mass Incarceration will help to curate the content of this archive. All submissions will be part of a publicly accessible repository of primary materials about the punitive consequences of mass incarceration as told by currently and formerly incarcerated people, their loved ones, and those living and working in communities most impacted by mass incarceration. CALL FOR ORAL HISTORIES The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA will also document how incarceration impacts businesses, religion, art, medicine, healthcare, and activism – transforming “social life” in American cities. If your life has been shaped or transformed by mass incarceration (either by being incarcerated or by experiencing the incarceration of your own family, friends, or neighbors), we want to hear your story. We are also interested in hearing the narratives of people who live next to U.S. jails and prisons or those who work within them. If you are interested in submitting an oral history, please email [email protected] and an archivist will contact you to preserve your story. LAB TEAM Nicole Gonzalez Van Cleve is an associate professor in the Department of Sociology at Brown University and an affiliated scholar with the American Bar Foundation in Chicago, IL. She is an affiliated fellow with Brown University’s Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice (CSSJ) and the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA). She is the author of Crook County: Racism and Injustice in America's Largest Criminal Court (2016) and The Waiting Room (2018). She is the generator and faculty lead for the Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA, generously funded by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. Nina Johnson is an associate professor in the Department of Sociology and Anthropology and the Program in Black Studies at Swarthmore College. She is a scholar of inequality, politics, race culture, stratification, and mobility, and she is an experienced educator and collaborator with students and scholars who are incarcerated in U.S. prisons. She is the Mass Incarceration Humanities Lab Fellow, contributing her expertise as a prison educator in identifying and collecting materials for the archive. Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Stay Connected Subscribe to our newsletter Visit Our YouTube Channel The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) Brown University Box 2032 96 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5775 Fax: 401-863-5784 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top