Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Theater Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Theater Major Apply Visit Request More Info Theater Major Admissions Audition Requirements Careers, Internships & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Theater Major Learn to fulfill your creative potential and develop a strong foundation from which to launch an artistic career by earning the Bachelor of Arts in Theater in Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. This 124-credit-hour undergraduate degree program is meant to impart the cognitive and creative skills necessary to cultivate the next generation of theater actors, designers, directors and teachers. Three concentrations offered within the program are Acting, Design and Production, and Directing. Developed within an interdisciplinary artistic environment in the bustling heart of Philadelphia, the Theater BA program at Temple allows students to also enjoy a vast array of opportunities for learning outside of the classroom. You can also explore information about the Musical Theater Major. Theater Studies Sequence The Theater Studies Sequence, an alternative to choosing one of the more specialized concentrations, is ideal for theater students who are interested in a more well-rounded curriculum. A broad foundation of theater classes gives way to opportunities for more tailored advanced courses, guided by the student’s goals and faculty input. This program affords maximum flexibility and the chance to pursue a variety of coursework, as well as a minor or double major. Though the focus will always remain on the theater, general Theater majors develop lifelong skills that extend well beyond the stage, such as leadership, creativity and effective communication. Graduates are prepared for careers both within the world of theater and outside of it. Concentrations You can focus on Theater or you can take one of the following concentrations. Acting Prepare to enter a graduate acting program or pursue a career in film, theater and TV. This program provides high-caliber training in the context of a liberal arts education, so you can thrive either in a graduate conservatory program or professionally. Read more about the Acting concentration in the Bachelor of Arts in Theater program. View Concentration Details Design and Production Prepare to enter a graduate design or production program or pursue a career in film, theater and TV. This program provides high-caliber training in the context of a liberal arts education, so you can thrive either in a graduate conservatory program or professionally. Read more about the Design and Production concentration in the Bachelor of Arts in Theater program. View Concentration Details Directing Uncover who you are as a theater artist and discover what it means to be a storyteller in mind, spirit and imagination. Develop the skills of a well-rounded theater artist under the philosophical foundation of the collaborative process, preparing for the next level of training in theater, television and film. Receive high-caliber instruction and prepare to thrive either in a graduate conservatory program or in the real-world of directing. Intensive and varied craft-oriented classes, combined with experiential work in minimalist to full-scale productions, allow students to develop the skills needed for creative communication and artistic leadership. View Concentration Details Classes & Curriculum The Theater BA program is designed to combine liberal arts classes with intensive theater studies, leading to a comprehensive overview of the world of theater. Over the course of the program, students will work toward either a Theater Studies Sequence or one of three other concentrations. As such, students are encouraged to choose courses which best fit their desired area of focus. Students who pursue the Design and Production concentration have the option to take a Theater internship as one of their required courses, in addition to the foundation courses. Learn more about Theater Major courses. Theater Education 4+1 Program The Theater Education 4+1 Program allows students to earn a Bachelor of Arts in Theater with a focus on theater education, a Master of Education, a minor in English and a certificate to teach in secondary schools in Pennsylvania. Students in the 4+1 Program begin taking graduate-level courses in their junior and senior year, which leaves only 19 credit hours of graduate work to be completed after earning the BA in Theater. Learn more about the Theater Education 4+1 Program. Related Graduate Degrees Design MFA Directing MFA Playwriting MFA Musical Theater Collaboration MFA Musical Theater Studies MA Related Certificates Acting Stage Management Theater Education Theater and Community Engagement Voice and Speech Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $18,168.00 per year Out-of-state: $31,440.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The School of Theater, Film and Media Arts academic advisors will help you chart your course through your academic program. They guide you in choosing electives, as well as navigating policies and procedures regarding changes of major, leaves of absence and withdrawals, and registration. Contact Sachiko Nakazato is the academic advisor for the undergraduate degree in Theater. Phone: 215-204-3437 Email: sachiko.nakazato@temple.edu Leanna Arnold is the senior academic advisor for the Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: leanna.arnold@temple.edu Program Contact For visits and questions regarding recruitment for the Theater BA, contact Paury Flowers, recruitment coordinator. Phone: 215-777-9135 Email: pflowers@temple.edu The head of each discipline in the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts provides academic and program support for students. Marie Anne Chiment is the faculty contact and head of Costume Design. Phone: 215-204-4024 Email: chiment@temple.edu Fred M. Duer is the faculty contact and head of Scenic Design. Phone: 215-204-2804 Email: fmduer@temple.edu David Ingram is the faculty contact and head of Theater Studies. Phone: 215-204-6257 Email: dingra@temple.edu Matthew Miller is the faculty contact and head of Theater Education & Stage Management. Phone: 215-204-4263 Email: mbmiller@temple.edu Jason Norris is an assistant professor of lighting and project design in the Theater Department. Phone: 215-204-1050 Email: jason.norris@temple.edu Peter Reynolds is the faculty contact and head of Musical Theater. Phone: 215-204-8628 Email: peterr@temple.edu Donna Snow is the faculty contact and head of Acting. Phone: 215-204-8414 Email: dsnow@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations give you the opportunity to gain stage performance or production experience, express yourself without classroom restrictions, and network with other theater professionals. In addition, you can make friends and enhance your social life. Consider joining one or more of the following clubs. Alpha Psi Omega is a nationally recognized honorary theater fraternity that elects Theater majors for membership as reward for their participation in university theater activities. Babel Poetry Collective is a group comprised of MCs, musicians and singers. Babel has off-campus events, open mics, two regular shows per semester and workshops to promote the popularity of poetry. The Musical Theater Cooperative provides students with opportunities such as masterclasses, trips to New York City to see productions and workshops with musical theater professionals, as well as planned performances including cabarets, concerts and readings. “Temple SMASH” is Temple University's first and only televised variety show, produced for students by students. Taped in front of a live studio audience in TV Studio 1 of Annenberg Hall in Klein College of Media and Communication, the show features an array of talent acts including dancers, musical groups, original sketch comedy, short films, stand-up comics and more. Temple Theaters’ Sidestage Season is a group that facilitates Theater students’ professional growth by providing space, producers, marketing and publicity support for student productions. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Study Away Spend a semester in the land of Shakespeare with the London Study Away Program. Live in the heart of London while studying theater. Supplement your coursework with free attendance at nine theatrical productions, courtesy of the American Institute for Foreign Study. You can also take advantage of internship opportunities to work with local English theaters as a box office attendant, clerical assistant, representative production assistant or another position. In addition, you can broaden your education by spending a semester or summer in Los Angeles studying the film industry as part of the Los Angeles Study Away Program. Explore the various facets of filmmaking through meetings with artists and industry professionals, lectures and on-site events, and special programs. Learn more about Temple’s other study away options. Accreditation The Theater Department is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre as well as a member of the University Resident Theatre Association. CA-THTR-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Theater Major Admissions Audition Requirements Careers, Internships & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info