Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Commitment to Indigenous Communities and Nations in North America Commitment to Indigenous Communities and Nations in North America Cornell has long and historic ties to North American Indigenous Nations and communities. Our Ithaca campus is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation), members of the Hodinǫ̱hsǫ́:nih (Haudenosaunee) Confederacy. Today, we have vibrant programs supporting education, research and engagement with many Indigenous communities. Climate change adaptation requires Indigenous knowledge Karim-Aly Kassam is leading a project that brings together Indigenous and rural communities and scholars from across the globe to develop ecological calendars that integrate local cultural systems with seasonal indicators. A storyteller makes ancient Native American tales new again Perry Ground ’91 travels around the world performing Haudenosaunee stories, adapting them to the present while keeping their traditional spirit alive. Collaboration plants seeds for cultural, biological conservation A campus partnership with the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (Cayuga Nation) seeks to conserve biodiversity and simultaneously safeguard human cultural values and traditions – including language – that depend on these natural resources. New timeline clarifies Indigenous history in Mohawk Valley A collaboration between Cornell researchers and the New York State Museum in Albany has established a more precise timeline for some of the most iconic archeological sites in the Mohawk Valley by dating materials that were used by the Indigenous communities living in these villages. Land Acknowledgement Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. History To recognize this connection, Cornell has formally adopted the land acknowledgment statement developed by the American Indian and Indigenous Studies Program (AIISP) in consultation with, and approved by, the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' traditional leadership. The university encourages faculty members, staff and students to read the full acknowledgement at the beginning of significant events and gatherings to acknowledge the historical and ongoing ties that the Gayogo̱hó:nǫ' have to this particular area. Copy of the Morrill Act In addition to our relationship with the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' homeland, as a result of the Morrill Land-Grant Act of 1862, Cornell was among 52 land-grant universities that were beneficiaries of land scrip from the U.S. federal government. The government awarded land scrip to states relative to a state’s population, and thus New York received the largest amount. We recognize that lands distributed to states to support the founding of universities were previously taken by the federal government from Indigenous Nations by force and fraud that included treaty violations, treaties signed under duress, or direct appropriation without compensation – and that the subsequent sales of these lands seeded endowments, including Cornell’s. Historians, including Prof. Jon Parmenter at Cornell, have explained that, from its very founding, the federal government was engaged in a practice of extinguishing Native title, thereby dispossessing Native people of their lands and natural resources for the benefit of American settler institutions and individuals. As the largest recipient of proceeds from appropriated Indigenous lands from the 1862 Morrill Act and as the institution that accrued the greatest financial benefit from that land, we acknowledge Cornell’s central place in this history. Indeed, the history of the Morrill Act is more complex than commonly known. As more information continues to emerge, we will continue to honor and present this history as part of our land grant origins. Faculty in AIISP are conducting ongoing research into this important aspect of the university's history. De Yen Twas Society: Extension Service News, Volume IV, No. 2, Feb 1921 Cornell has other notable historical connections with North American Indigenous Nations and communities. Among them, in 1920 Cornell’s then-College of Agriculture created the Indian Extension Program. This program specifically focused its outreach programs to address the needs of Indigenous communities, building close relationships between Cornell and the Hodinǫ̱hsǫ́:nih communities thanks in large part to the efforts of Cornell faculty member Dr. Erl Bates. This program brought Cornell extension staff to Indigenous communities across New York state, as well as Indigenous students to Cornell. Indeed, the first college student organization in the United States for Indigenous students, De Yen Twas, was founded at Cornell in 1921. In partnership with Nations, the Indian Extension Program had several successes, including work on crop improvement, pest control efforts like quarantine of the corn-borer and eradication of tuberculosis. Critical questions remain, however, about whether these efforts were primarily driven by Cornell or created in response to concerns raised by Indigenous communities. Questions also exist about whether university scientists respected and incorporated traditional, Indigenous knowledge in their problem-solving efforts or ignored this knowledge in favor of their own scientific approaches. There are also questions about whether the university could have done more to recruit undergraduates and graduate students at the time. Much has changed in the last 100 years, including a greater appreciation for ways to properly engage with Indigenous communities that demonstrate respect for Indigenous knowledge and cultural traditions. Today, our commitment to culturally appropriate and meaningful relationships with Indigenous communities remains forefront in our efforts to actively partner with communities across New York state and beyond, through the Cooperative Extension network and other academic and engagement programs across the university. Akwe:kon House Helping to guide the university in these endeavors is AIISP. The Indian Extension Program waned in the 1960s, following the retirement of Dr. Bates. AIISP was established in 1983 as a new effort to focus on academic, recruitment and retention. With faculty members bridging three of Cornell’s colleges (Agriculture and Life Sciences, Arts and Sciences and Human Ecology), AIISP is committed to fostering the next generation of leading scholars and serves as the campus hub for Indigenous teaching, research and outreach. It is one of the oldest academic Indigenous studies programs in the United States and offers a unique combination of courses. It also provides crucial recruitment and academic support services for Indigenous students and runs an Indigenous-themed residence at Akwe:kon, one of the oldest collegiate residential houses built explicitly to celebrate North American Indigenous culture. In 2021, Cornell opened several dormitories, one of which is named Ganędagǫ: Hall, a name also developed in consultation with AIISP and the traditional leadership of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ'. Collapse history Education As a leading research university with a mission to “discover, preserve and disseminate knowledge, to educate the next generation of global citizens,” Cornell has established educational programs and partnerships specifically geared toward meeting this goal for Indigenous students. These include pre-college programs for high school youth and dedicated university staff to assist prospective students navigating the admissions and financial aid process. Once enrolled, Cornell offers Indigenous students academic guidance and support from a committed community of staff, faculty and peers from across campus, including those affiliated with the American Indian and Indigenous Studies Program (AIISP). To recruit Indigenous graduate students, the university also actively partners with AIISP and the Graduate School. Cornell participates in off-campus programs, such as the national and regional conferences of the American Indian Science and Engineering Society (AISES), and has hosted on-campus programs for Indigenous students from across the United States to preview the graduate experience. Research The university’s commitment to inquiry and research conducted by Indigenous scholars and related to Indigenous Nations and communities, both local and global, is evident across the university. Recent examples range from using radiocarbon dating methods to revise the chronology of Indigenous settlements between the 15th and 17th centuries in what is now New York state, to examining Alaska’s Indigenous history, to studying Indigenous textiles and apparel. Engagement From efforts focused on preserving and documenting endangered Indigenous languages in New York state, to developing culturally appropriate landscapes for Indigenous community housing, to understanding how traditional ecological knowledge can inform sustainability solutions, Cornell faculty, staff and students actively engage with Indigenous community partners to identify needs and develop solutions together. Additional Links Back to top AIISP Student Resources Akwe:kon Land Grant Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather 79°F / 26°C Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube