Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Science in Kinesiology, MS Obtain advanced knowledge in the exploration of human movement and applied exercise physiology Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Health Professions and Sciences Department(s) Kinesiology&Phys Thpy, Schl of 2 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Improve People’s Lives through Movement and Exercise A master’s degree from UCF in kinesiology prepares you with the education and experience to pursue a career in exercise physiology, sport science, strength and conditioning, or to pursue a doctoral degree in a related field. The program emphasizes exercise as medicine, and trains students to apply scientific practices and principles to support health and maximize performance across the lifespan. The Master of Science in Kinesiology offers a non-thesis track, and a thesis track. Both options require a minimum of 36 credit hours, with at least 18 credit hours of coursework at the 6000 level. All students are automatically placed in the non-thesis track. Students wishing to pursue the thesis option must receive approval from the graduate program director and have a commitment from a faculty member to serve as the thesis committee chair. Students in the non-thesis option are required to participate in a practicum, APK 6946, that will serve as their culminating graduate experience or take an independent learning experience (PET 6910 – Problem Analysis – Review of Literature) that involves a detailed literature review specific to a subject area of the student’s interest under the supervision of graduate faculty. Related Graduate Certificates: Anatomical Sciences Graduate Certificate – Done in conjunction with your MS degree, you can gain an in-depth understanding of anatomical sciences and substantial hands-on experience in the gross anatomy laboratory when you elect to complete a graduate certificate in anatomical sciences. Students interested in pursuing the Anatomical Sciences Graduate Certificate must receive approval from the graduate program director. Coursework in the certificate program may be substituted for elective courses toward the Kinesiology MS degree. Request Information Highlights The Division of Kinesiology received the Education Recognition Program distinction for Graduate Strength and Conditioning from the National Strength and Conditioning Association. Non-thesis students may pursue practicum opportunities with local healthcare and fitness facilities, sports organizations, and the UCF Sports Science Initiative. Thesis students assist faculty in conducting interdisciplinary research through the Institute of Exercise Physiology and Rehabilitation Science. The Anatomical Sciences Graduate Certificate provides an avenue to gain in-depth experience in the anatomy lab and specialized education in anatomical sciences. Application Deadlines Fall Priority January 15 Fall July 1 Summer April 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Research Methods in Kinesiology Examine scientific inquiry and research-based practices that expand knowledge within the discipline of kinesiology. Exercise Physiology I Gain an in-depth understanding of systems physiology with an emphasis on responses to various exercise intensities and modalities, and homeostatic control. Sport Nutrition Study the proper nutrition for training, the role of macro and micronutrients on the physiological processes of the body, and the importance of nutrient timing. Assessment and Evaluation in Kinesiology Learn techniques of assessment and evaluation of human performance and their applications to kinesiology. View All Kinesiology, MS Courses That You'll Take I am extremely grateful for the support and mentorship I received from the faculty and staff in the Division of Kinesiology throughout my time in the undergraduate and graduate programs. The resources and opportunities for growth have inspired me and prepared me for my future in sports. I am eternally appreciative of my time at UCF. Charge On!” Maxine Furtado Mesa, '19, '21 MS, Current McKnight Doctoral Fellow Kinesiology Skills You'll Learn Gain a deeper understanding of the research development process within the field of kinesiology Expand your knowledge-base with respect to the scientific exploration of human movement, while enhancing your ability to interpret research findings Utilize advanced fitness and anthropometric assessment techniques to evaluate a wide variety of client populations Learn to interface with other fitness professionals through collaborative, multi-disciplinary efforts aimed at improving human performance Career Opportunities Clinical Exercise Physiologist Corporate Wellness Specialist Strength & Conditioning Coach Exercise Physiologist Personal Trainer University Professor Sport Scientist Clinical Research Scientist Admission Requirements The UCF master’s in kinesiology program admits twice per year, in the fall and summer semesters. Applicants must apply online and all requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Request Information To apply, submit the general graduate admissions requirements, as well as the following items by the deadline: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. Personal statement discussing reasons for selecting the Kinesiology degree program, career goals, and how this degree will support the stated career goals. Two letters of recommendation from previous faculty or supervisors who can speak to the applicant’s abilities to be successful in graduate school. Résumé or curriculum vitae (CV) Video essay While not required, applicants are encouraged to submit official GRE scores taken within the last five years for potential consideration for fellowships, scholarships and assistantships. Request Information College of Health Professions and Sciences News Check out more stories Health & Medicine Survivor Link National Training Program Launches at UCF The program will support nine social work students, developing their ability to respond to domestic violence. Colleges & Campus UCF Opens New Huntington’s Disease Multispecialty Clinic Located in Research Park, the new clinic offers multidisciplinary care from the College of Medicine, School of Social Work, and College of Health Professions and… Community UCF Class Spotlight: Introduction to American Sign Language In honor of National American Sign Language Day, April 15, here’s a look at a course — plus an instructional video — that teaches students… Health & Medicine UCF Students Team up to Provide Care at Apopka Farmworkers Clinic For the first time since the pandemic, the clinic has returned to in-person services at full capacity. Graduate Kinesiology Student Gets Strength from Law Scholarship Maxine Furtado — the first recipient of the Jeffrey D. Law Memorial Scholarship for students in the kinesiology M.S. program — shares how grateful she is for generous donors. Kinesiology Master’s Student Receives Scholarship to Aid in Success Degree Search College of Health Professions and Sciences programs Masters Kinesiology (MS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Kinesiology (MS) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Master of Science in Kinesiology provides an in-depth study of applied human physiology and how it relates to exercise, athletic performance and health and wellness across the lifespan. The Master of Science in Kinesiology offers Non-Thesis options, a Thesis option, and an Anatomical Sciences Specialization for students. All options require a minimum of 36 credit hours, with at least 18 credit hours of coursework at the 6000 level. All students are automatically placed in the Non-Thesis option. Students wishing to pursue the Thesis option must receive approval from the graduate program director and have a commitment from a faculty member to serve as the thesis committee chair. Due to limited enrollment, students wishing to pursue the Anatomical Sciences Specialization must also receive approval from the graduate program director. Students in the Non-Thesis option are required to participate in a practicum APK 6946 that will serve as their culminating graduate experience or take an independent learning experience ( PET 6910 - Problem Analysis - Review of Literature ) that involves a detailed literature review specific to a subject area of the student's interest under the supervision of graduate faculty. The Anatomical Sciences Specialization provides a depth of understanding of the anatomical sciences and substantial hands-on experience in the gross anatomy laboratory. Students interested in pursuing the Anatomical Sciences Graduate Certificate (https://healthprofessions.ucf.edu/physicaltherapy/anatomical-sciences/) must gain admission to the certificate program and complete the specified electives, which may be substituted for elective courses listed below. Total Credit Hours Required: 36 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree Program Prerequisites Degree Requirements Required Courses 12 Total Credits Complete the following: APK6713 - Research Methods in Kinesiology (3) PET5355 - Exercise Physiology I (3) PET6389 - Exercise Physiology II (3) PET6515 - Assessment and Evaluation in Kinesiology (3) Thesis/Nonthesis Option 24 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following Nonthesis Route Complete 1 of the following Nonthesis Option 1 Complete all of the following Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: APK 6946 - Practicum, Clinical Practice Earn at least 21 credits from the following: APK6703 - Statistical Methods in Kinesiology (3) PET6096 - Youth Physical and Athletic Development (3) PET6335 - Functional Anatomy and Kinesiology (3) PET6357C - Environmental Perturbation and Human Performance (3) PET6363 - Dietary and Nutritional Supplementation for Athletic Performance (3) PET6366 - Exercise, Nutrition and Weight Control (3) PET6372 - Physical Activity and Nutritional Epidemiology (3) PET6376 - Sport Nutrition (3) PET6381 - Physiology of Neuromuscular Mechanisms (3) PET6388 - Cardiovascular Physiology (3) PET6395 - Program Design in Strength and Conditioning (3) PET6521 - Exercise Physiology Instrumentation (3) PET6690 - Exercise Prescription for Special Populations (3) PET7387 - Exercise Endocrinology (3) All electives are selected in conjunction with the student's graduate advisor or the graduate coordinator. Nonthesis Option 2 Complete all of the following Complete the following: PET6910 - Problem Analysis - Review of Literature (3) Earn at least 21 credits from the following: APK6703 - Statistical Methods in Kinesiology (3) PET6096 - Youth Physical and Athletic Development (3) PET6335 - Functional Anatomy and Kinesiology (3) PET6357C - Environmental Perturbation and Human Performance (3) PET6363 - Dietary and Nutritional Supplementation for Athletic Performance (3) PET6366 - Exercise, Nutrition and Weight Control (3) PET6372 - Physical Activity and Nutritional Epidemiology (3) PET6376 - Sport Nutrition (3) PET6381 - Physiology of Neuromuscular Mechanisms (3) PET6388 - Cardiovascular Physiology (3) PET6395 - Program Design in Strength and Conditioning (3) PET6521 - Exercise Physiology Instrumentation (3) PET6690 - Exercise Prescription for Special Populations (3) PET7387 - Exercise Endocrinology (3) All electives are selected in conjunction with the student's graduate advisor or the graduate coordinator. Thesis Option Complete all of the following Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: APK 6971 Complete the following: APK6703 - Statistical Methods in Kinesiology (3) Earn at least 15 credits from the following: APK6703 - Statistical Methods in Kinesiology (3) PET6096 - Youth Physical and Athletic Development (3) PET6335 - Functional Anatomy and Kinesiology (3) PET6357C - Environmental Perturbation and Human Performance (3) PET6363 - Dietary and Nutritional Supplementation for Athletic Performance (3) PET6366 - Exercise, Nutrition and Weight Control (3) PET6372 - Physical Activity and Nutritional Epidemiology (3) PET6376 - Sport Nutrition (3) PET6381 - Physiology of Neuromuscular Mechanisms (3) PET6388 - Cardiovascular Physiology (3) PET6395 - Program Design in Strength and Conditioning (3) PET6521 - Exercise Physiology Instrumentation (3) PET6690 - Exercise Prescription for Special Populations (3) PET7387 - Exercise Endocrinology (3) All electives are selected in conjunction with the student's graduate advisor or the graduate coordinator. Anatomical Sciences Specialization Complete all of the following Complete the following: PHT6115C - Gross Anatomy/Neuroscience I (6) PHT6118C - Gross Anatomy/Neuroscience II (6) PHT6119L - Seminar in Anatomical Sciences Techniques (3) PHT6510 - Administration of Anatomical Sciences Laboratory (3) Earn at least 6 credits from the following: APK6703 - Statistical Methods in Kinesiology (3) PET6096 - Youth Physical and Athletic Development (3) PET6335 - Functional Anatomy and Kinesiology (3) PET6357C - Environmental Perturbation and Human Performance (3) PET6363 - Dietary and Nutritional Supplementation for Athletic Performance (3) PET6366 - Exercise, Nutrition and Weight Control (3) PET6372 - Physical Activity and Nutritional Epidemiology (3) PET6376 - Sport Nutrition (3) PET6381 - Physiology of Neuromuscular Mechanisms (3) PET6388 - Cardiovascular Physiology (3) PET6395 - Program Design in Strength and Conditioning (3) PET6521 - Exercise Physiology Instrumentation (3) PET6690 - Exercise Prescription for Special Populations (3) PET7387 - Exercise Endocrinology (3) All electives are selected in conjunction with the student's graduate advisor or the graduate coordinator. Please review the catalog page for the Anatomical Sciences Graduate Certificate for courses required in that program. Grand Total Credits: 36 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. Personal statement discussing reasons for selecting the Kinesiology degree program, career goals, and how this degree will support the stated career goals. Two letters of recommendation from previous faculty or supervisors who can speak to the applicant's abilities to be successful in graduate school. Résumé or curriculum vitae (CV). Video Essay While not required, applicants are encouraged to submit official GRE scores taken within the last five years for potential consideration for fellowships, scholarships, and assistantships. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. Application Deadlines Kinesiology MS *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jul 1 Apr 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 Nov 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida