Skip to main content Baylor Business - Hankamer School of Business Baylor University About HSB Student Resources Giving Contact Undergraduate #BU26 Graduate MBA Programs Army-Baylor Programs Master of Business Analytics Master of Information Systems Master of Economics Master of Accountancy Master of Taxation Doctorate in Entrepreneurship Doctorate in Health Services Research Doctorate in Information Systems Areas of Study Accounting & Business Law Baylor Business Fellows Economics Entrepreneurship & Corporate Innovation Finance, Insurance & Real Estate Information Systems & Business Analytics Marketing Management Centers & Institutes Entrepreneurship Family Business Financial Markets Health Policy & Leadership International Business Nonprofit Leadership Professional Selling Real Estate Sales & Marketing Sports Strategy and Sales Technology Center Ethics Podcast Events Career Center Alumni About HSB Student Resources Giving Undergraduate Graduate Areas of Study Centers & Institutes Ethics Business News Business News NEWSROOM HSB > Newsroom Accounting Team Places Second at Deloitte’s National Competition April 28, 2022 A team of four Accounting and Business Law students from the Hankamer School of Business finished in second place at Deloitte's National Audit Innovation Campus Challenge. Sophomore Andrew Cayasso, juniors Megan Gelber and Andrew Wydner and senior Hayden Allen completed the challenge at Deloitte University, where they prepared and delivered a presentation to a panel of Deloitte partners and responded to a series of questions regarding the prompt. In this year's challenge, Deloitte was interested in how they could better serve their clients who are interested in ESG: environmental, social and governance disclosures. "Each student invested significant time and energy into the competition and represented Baylor and our department to the highest degree," Faculty Advisor and Professor of Accounting Owen Brown said. "This placing will help increase the Baylor Accounting brand, which already has a strong reputation in the accounting community." Baylor Accounting's team was one of 12 finalists selected to present their ideas to Deloitte's evaluation panel and participate in a Q&A session regarding their idea. From there, Baylor moved on as one of the top three finalists and ended up finishing in second place. As a result, each competitor earned a $1,000 cash prize and Baylor's Department of Accounting and Business Law received a $5,000 scholarship. The competition began in the fall 2021 semester, where teams from 45 colleges and universities received a challenge statement, to which they responded with an idea submission form. In their submission, Baylor's team used Microsoft Power BI to create an interactive dashboard that organizations could use to create automated visualizations that would help make more informed decisions about ESG metrics and better report that information to the public. In addition to the cash prize each student received, Brown said this experience pushed students to respond to challenges outside of their current comfort zone and helped build their confidence to effectively communicate and deliver high-quality content. "Each student was stepping into a topic that they didn't have any background knowledge on, but they were able to think critically and innovatively," Brown said. "I hope it encouraged them to believe in themselves—that they can do hard things and be pushed and respond successfully to challenges outside of their present scope of experience." More News ... Search Site Map Events Podcast Categories Audio Featured In the News Video News By Program All News Accounting Alumni Audio Business Law Dean's Office Economics Entrepreneurship Executive MBA Finance Graduate Programs Information Systems Insurance Management Marketing MBA Real Estate Research Students Undergraduate Programs Video Stay Connected Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Podcast YouTube RSS Feed Events Podcast Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Podcast YouTube RSS Feed Baylor Business Links About HSB Advisory Board Baylor Business Brand Events Maps & Directions News Find Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Podcast RSS Feed Resources and Tools Canvas Digital Measures Directory Faculty/Staff Resources HSB Policies Student Resources Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University Waco, Texas 76798 1-800-BAYLOR-U