Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index School of Veterinary Medicine Menu Search TTU School of Veterinary Medicine People Staff Staff Whitni Abernathy Program Manager Whitni Abernathy serves as the Program Manager for the office of the Dean and Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine. She provides support for the accreditation reporting for the school as well as any other reviews and annual reports needed. A Texas Tech University alumnus, Whitni graduated with a Master's in Environmental Engineering in 2012. After graduation Whitni spent time in oil and gas related roles, mostly in the technical sales and business development. After eight years in the field, she decided it was time to move back home to Amarillo. Whitni is glad to be back with her Texas Tech family and looking forward to her time at the School of Veterinary Medicine. Michael Acuna Large Animal Veterinary Technician Michael serves as the Large Animal Veterinary Technician at the Mariposa Station for Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine. He assists in teaching the veterinary students. His vast knowledge and many years of experience will help students remain in a safe environment while learning. He began working in veterinary medicine in 1972 in Santa Fe, New Mexico, where he was born and raised. He and his wife are excited about their new adventure in Amarillo. In his free time, he enjoys ranch work, team roping, and spending time with his grandchildren. Kim Akins Administrative Assistant Kim Akins serves as the Administrative Assistant in Academic and Student Affairs at the School of Veterinary Medicine. She comes from the TTUHSC family, working in both School of Medicine and Jerry H. Hodge School of Pharmacy. Kim was born and raised in Amarillo, Texas graduating from Amarillo High School. Kim is married to her best friend, Jay and they have 5 children, Bentley (and HER husband Keevan), Courtney, Landon, Danniel and LJ. They are awaiting the arrival of their first grandchild. Outside of work, she enjoys camping, attending sporting events, crafting, photography and traveling. Emily Balke Admissions and Scholarship Coordinator Emily Balke serves as the Admissions and Scholarship Coordinator for the School of Veterinary Medicine. She provides support for students working through their application process, and helps the scholarship committee in processing scholarships for students. Emily is an Amarillo native and graduated from Amarillo High School. She then moved to Lubbock, Texas to earn her undergraduate degree in public relations at Texas Tech University. Emily comes to us from the College of Media & Communication at Texas Tech University where she was the recruitment and student engagement coordinator for almost ten years. During her time working for the College of Media & Communication she earned her master's degree in interdisciplinary studies in August 2020 from the Texas Tech Graduate School. Emily is thrilled to return to her hometown and help grow the School of Veterinary Medicine. In her free time, she likes to spend time with family and friends, and her Australian Labradoodle, Piper. Danelle Barber Senior Administrative Assistant Danelle Barber is a Senior Administrative Assistant to the Associate Deans in the School of Veterinary Medicine. She supports the planning, budgeting, supervision, program implementation, and evaluation of the School of Veterinary Medicine. Danelle grew up on the family farm in Nazareth, Texas, with three brothers, a sister, and a plethora of cousins in her close-knit community. After receiving a Bachelor of Science degree in Agricultural Economics from Texas Tech, she worked in the district Congressional offices of U.S. Representative Larry Combest in Lubbock for 10 1/2 years, and most recently, for U.S. Representative Mac Thornberry in Amarillo for 14 1/2 years. Danelle's son and daughter are proud graduates of Bushland High School and Texas Tech University. A few of her favorite things are family, friends, sports and tailgating, rural America and its citizens, Texas Panhandle sunsets, and the Texas Tech community. Emily Bowmer Clinical and Professional Skills Technician Emily Bowmer serves as a Clinical and Professional Skills Technician at the School of Verterinary Medicine. She assists students in learning professional skills in interactive labs and simulated client/patient interactions. Emily was born and raised in Amarillo and graduated from Randall High School. She obtained a Bachelor of Science degree in Microbiology in 2001 and a Master of Education in Higher Education in 2019, both from Penn State University. Emily has spent most of her professional career in higher education serving as an instructor and academic advisor. She is married to Jonathan and has two children, Douglas and Sabine. In her spare time, she enjoys cooking, gardening, and fostering cats for the local humane society. Weston Brooks Director of Communications & Marketing Weston Brooks serves as the Director of Communications and Marketing for the School of Veterinary Medicine. He develops and implements marketing, communications, media and engagement plans for the school. Weston joined the team in October 2020. He grew up on a small ranch in Eastland, Texas with a dad who is a veterinarian and part owner of a mixed animal practice. Weston along with his parents and two older siblings are all Texas Tech Alumni. Therefore, being a Red Raider has become a family tradition! He graduated in 2019 with a B.A. in Electronic Media and Communications. He loves watching movies and filmmaking. Weston was a team member on the creation of a short film documentary called “Texas Snow”, which is about the heritage and hardships of cotton farming in West Texas. It was featured in several film festivals. He enjoys traveling and outdoor activities such as camping and snow skiing. However, he mainly loves spending time with family. Ashley Chinchilla Small Animal Husbandry Caretaker Ashley is a certified veterinary assistant and serves as a small animal husbandry caretaker for Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine. She moved from Phoenix, Arizona to Canyon, Texas in January of 2022 to pursue her career in veterinary medicine. She served in the United States Navy and earned her bachelors degree in Nuclear Energy Engineering. She previously worked for Northrop Grumman in Phoenix, Arizona as a mechanical engineer building space satellites for launch at Cape Canaveral Air Force Base. Ashley supports local animal rescues and fosters dogs until they are adopted. She lives in Canyon, Texas with her fiancée, 15 dogs, 5 cats, and a chinchilla. David Favela Outcome Assessment Specialist David is the Outcome Assessment Specialist for the School of Veterinary Medicine. He is from Tulia, Texas and has lived in the Texas Panhandle all his life. He has two children and graduated from West Texas A&M University with a Bachelor of Arts: History and a Master of Education: Curriculum and Instruction, respectively. He has spent almost ten years in Higher Education working as an Academic Adviser, tutor, grading assistant, research assistant, and part-time instructor. He hopes that his skills and knowledge will assist the future generations of Veterinarians at Texas Tech. He enjoys the collegiate setting, reading Spider-Man comics, playing tennis, spending time with his children, and aspires to become a film historian. Cassandra Featherston, LVT Veterinary Technician Cassandra Featherston serves as a Veterinary Technician at Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine. She assists in the Clinical and Professional Skills Labs. Her career in veterinary medicine began in high school. She obtained her Veterinary Technician License after graduating from Penn Foster College, passing the Veterinary Technician National Exam (VTNE), and the Texas Licensed Vet Tech Exam (LVTE). She was born and raised in the Texas Panhandle. She currently lives in Amarillo with her boyfriend and their dog, Scooby, and three cats: Cinnamon, Toast, and a three-legged boy named Picket. Her hobbies include arts and crafts, traveling, and going to concerts. Scott Frederiksen Anatomical Preparator Scott Frederiksen is an Anatomical Preparator for the Anatomy Department. He is the primary anatomy technician responsible for the day-to-day operations of the laboratory and assisting the anatomists. A recent addition to the Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine he joined the team in March 2021. Scott is an Amarillo native and West Texas A&M Alumni having graduated in 2018 with a Bachelors in Agriculture with a minor in animal science. Then worked for various horse and rodeo associations at shows then went to a trade school to learn how to build, design and repair guitars. In his spare time, he builds and repairs acoustic guitars, and plays classical guitar and attends concerts as often as possible. Mohamed Ghonim Chief Compliance Officer Mohamed Ghonim (Ayman) will serve as the Chief Compliance Officer. He obtained two bachelor's degrees, one in Military Sciences and another in Business Administration, and a diploma in International Security Studies. Ayman came to Texas Tech from the University of Illinois, where he was an Equal Employment Opportunity Investigator, investigating discrimination cases. He also worked for Virginia Tech. Before that, he spent all his professional career in the military, starting as a lieutenant and ending as a colonel and the head of one Military Intelligence Agency offices. During his military service, he filled different global organizations positions, such as the United Nations as an International Military Observer in Morocco and the African Union as the Chief Personnel and Administration mission in Sudan. Ayman spent his professional career investigating cases and ensuring compliance in one way or another. As the School's safety officer and liaise with the Department of Environmental Health & Safety, he will support teaching and research laboratory compliance. He will provide training for faculty and staff on compliance-related needs and maintain compliance with all federal, state, and University requirements. He will also help in other compliance-related activities. Anthony Goldsmith Clinical Skills Model Technician Anthony Goldsmith serves as the Clinical Skills Model Technician at the School of Veterinary Medicine. He will help support the development of student skills by maintaining and manufacturing models for instructional use. The models are manufactured in our very own maker space using a variety of techniques and equipment. He is a graduate of Walden University where he earned a BS in Interdisciplinary Studies and became a U.S. Army Combat Veteran. As of July 2021, he now begins his career at the Texas Tech SVM. Anthony is married to his wife Ashley, and together they run a small farm with sheep, llamas, and horses. Erik Houston Large Animal Husbandry Caretaker Erik Houston serves as the Large Animal Husbandry Caretaker. He takes care of all the animals housed at Mariposa Station. He is originally from a town in southeast Colorado called Ordway. He has spent his whole life in the agricultural field in many trades including: carpentry, welding, farming, mechanicing, truck driving, and cowboy work. Sarah Innis Director of Admissions and Student Services Sarah Innis serves as the Director for Student Services and Admissions. She will be working with the Dean of Student Services and Academic Affairs to build the admissions cycle and administer student support. Sarah is an Amarillo native and graduated from Randall High School. Later, she earned her undergraduate degree from Oral Roberts University and started her career by working for the TTUHSC School of Pharmacy. She has spent seven years between the Amarillo and the Dallas campuses working in student affairs specifically in admissions, recruitment, and student success. Sarah is also a fellow Red Raider and earned her master's degree in Higher Education Administration from Texas Tech University in 2018. She will be returning to her hometown and looks forward to being a part of this amazing program while reconnecting with family, friends, and the family dogs, Jasmine Precious, and Mr. Wiggles. Debbie Johnson Executive Associate to the Dean Debbie Johnson serves as the executive associate to the Dean of the School of Veterinary Medicine. She is responsible for managing the Dean's office and administrative assistants across the School of Veterinary Medicine. Debbie spent much of her career in Human Resources Executive Management. Previously, she served in a dual role of management and executive assistant to the CEO. She began working at Texas Tech Veterinary School in January 2021. Debbie grew up in the picturesque mountain town of Ruidsoso, NM, but now considers herself a native of Amarillo. She is married to her best friend, Brad, and they have 2 daughters (Ashlee and Taylor). Their grandchildren, Grayson and Rhyan are the most fun! The newest addition to the household is a rescue dog, named Buddy. She and Brad enjoy all activities relating to the outdoors, and plan annual family vacations camping, hiking and riding off-road vehicles. Elizabeth Langwell Veterinary Technician Elizabeth Langwell serves as a Veterinary Technician for the School of Veterinary Medicine. She assists in the Clinical and Professional Skills Labs. She received her Certificate of Completion in Veterinary Assisting from Amarillo College and then her B.S. in Biology from the University of Texas at Arlington. She was born and raised in Amarillo and spent 15 years living in the Dallas/Ft. Worth area. Her family owned and operated an independent pharmacy in Amarillo for 40 years. She has always had a heart for animals and enjoyed raising and showing Quarter Horses for many years. She shares her home with two dogs, two hamsters, two birds, and a Uromastyx named Petra. Mike Mercado IT Specialist III Mike Mercado serves as the IT Specialist for the Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine. He provides technical support and assistance to departments, faculty, staff, and students with the use of software applications, customized applications, systems support, and websites, etc. He also manages area and unit IT software projects in support of business operations. Mike was born and raised in Floydada, Texas. He attended and graduated from West Texas A&M University. He began his IT career while attending WTAMU and has spent more than 20 years serving in several different positions from an IT Technician to an IT Director/Coordinator for area public and private schools. Recently coming from TTUHSC's Managed Care department, he now provides all technical support for the Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine. Mike is married to his wife Priscilla, and together they have two children. They are avid fans of their two favorite softball and baseball players. Together they spend their free time chasing their daughter around the tri-state area supporting her and her softball team as well as their son that is just getting started in baseball. For faculty and staff IT support, please contact svm.itsupport@ttu.edu. Scott Mitchell Senior Director of Operations Scott Mitchell serves as the Senior Director of Operations for the School of Veterinary Medicine. Scott will perform executive-level operational and administrative oversight for the School of Veterinary Medicine. This includes organizational oversight and management of staff, implementation of projects for accreditation, facilities management, organizational build-up, and fostering the School's core values. Scott holds a Master's degree in Range Management from the College of Agriculture Sciences and Natural Resources at Texas Tech University. Scott comes to the School of Veterinary Medicine from the private wealth sector, where he managed a large portfolio of farms and ranches in Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas. Scott grew up on his family's farm/ranch in the small rural community of Lazbuddie, Texas. Abby Morris Administrative Business Assistant Abby Morris serves as the Administrative Business Assistant at the School of Veterinary Medicine. She provides the principal secretarial support as well as administrative and Human Resource needs of the School. She started her career with Texas Tech and the School of Veterinary Medicine in November of 2019. Abby is an Amarillo native and a Texas Tech Alumni, having graduated in 2017 with a BFA in Art with a concentration in Photography. She is a third generation Red Raider and was a member of the Goin' Band from Raiderland and the Beta Chapter of Tau Beta Sigma, the band service sorority. Abby was recently married in December to the love of her life, Blaine. Together they have two adorable dogs, Leo and Ellie, and a lovable cat, Jorah. They love spending their free time together by going on camping trips or just spending time at home playing video games. Kristina Pennell Director of Administration and Finance Kristina Pennell serves as the Director of Administration and Finance for the School of Veterinary Medicine. She helps implement budget goals for the school as well as manage start-up funding and research accounts for SVM faculty. Originally from Schertz, Texas, Kristina graduated from Texas Tech University with a Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Communications in 2012. In 2013, she began her career at TTU as the lead account processor for the Department of Animal & Food Sciences, where she managed gift, grant and state funding for various professors. She also served as the Compliance Coordinator in Accounting Services, where she specialized in implementing effort regulations on sponsored projects. In her free time, Kristina enjoys spending time with her husband, Corey and their son, Cash. Megan Pirtle Student Services Coordinator Megan Pirtle serves as the Student Services Coordinator. She will be coordinating support for new and continuing students and assist with student wellness programs, organizations and events. She started her career with Texas Tech and the School of Veterinary Medicine in June 2021. Megan was born and raised in the Texas Panhandle and graduated from West Texas A&M University in 2015 with a Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Media and Communications. While at WT she competed on both the equestrian and horse judging teams. In her spare time, Megan enjoys running with her German Sheperd Mae, traveling and spending time with family and friends. Sherri Powledge Research Associate Sherri Powledge serves as a Research Associate for the Office of the Associate Dean for Research at the School of Veterinary Medicine. She performs specialized work in planning, coordinating, conducting, and supervising SVM-wide research activities. She started her career with Texas Tech in December 2021, after graduating from West Texas A&M University in 2021 and Texas Tech in 2019 with her Master's and Bachelor's in Animal Science, respectively. Originally from Aztec, New Mexico, Sherri enjoys camping, skiing, and all things cattle. She met her husband, Johnathon in college and together they have the most lovable dog, Jetta. They love spending their time outdoors with family and friends. Payton Priest Associate Director of Development Payton Priest serves as the Associate Director of Development for the School of Veterinary Medicine. Payton is responsible for the administrative duties of planning, organizing, directing, and coordinating special development efforts. These efforts include cultivation, solicitation and stewardship of individual, foundation, and corporate support for the School and its mission. Payton began serving in this role in the fall of 2021. Payton is a Texas Panhandle native and a third generation Red Raider. She graduated from Texas Tech University with highest honors in May 2019 with a Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Communications. Her husband, Laramie, is a fourth-generation cattleman. Laramie manages Priest Cattle Company's operations based in the Panhandle and West Texas while also owning and operating Priest Genetics, Payton and Laramie's show cattle business. Nicole Pruitt Business Manager Nicole Pruitt serves as a business manager for the School of Veterinary Medicine. She manages the budgets for the accounts of the SVM faculty. Nicole received her associate's degree in Medical Management from Amarillo College. She comes to us with 24 years of experience from Texas Tech University Health Science Center-Managed Care, where she worked in the finance department. Nicole grew up in Wellington a small rural community in the Texas panhandle, in a farming/ranching family. She now resides in Bushland with her husband Mark. Together they have 5 wonderful children and many awesome grandchildren. Kami Ray Lead Specialist Kami Ray serves as a Lead Specialist for the School of Veterinary Medicine. She manages the budgets and accounts of the SVM faculty. She started her career at Texas Tech in June of 2015 and with the Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine in April of 2020. She is originally from Ohio, but spent her elementary years between Amarillo & Spearman, TX. Her middle and high school years were spent back in Ohio with her family. At the age of 17, she moved back to Amarillo where she met and married her husband of 24 years, they have three beautiful kids together. Their family spent 13 of those years in Lubbock, TX where she first started working at Texas Tech in the Student Disability Services Department. She is excited to be back in Amarillo and be a part of this wonderful program! Elizabeth Rowe Director of Outcomes Assessment Elizabeth Rowe serves as the Director of Outcomes Assessment in the School of Veterinary Medicine (SVM). She will be involved in programmatic evaluation, implementation of examination software, development of measurable outcomes, and assessment data analysis. Elizabeth started her career with Texas Tech University SVM in July of 2020. A Tennessee native, Elizabeth completed her Bachelor of Science degree in Human Learning at the University of Tennessee-Martin. She then went on to the University of Tennessee-Knoxville, where she completed a Master of Science degree in Instructional Technology and a Specialist in Education (EdS) degree in Instructional Technology and Educational Studies. Elizabeth spent the first 6 years of her career in K-12 education, where she was heavily involved in instructional mentorship, data analysis, and outcomes assessment as a mentor teacher in the Teacher Advancement Program (TAP). After moving to Kansas in 2013, she joined the College of Education at Kansas State University as an academic advisor. Most recently, she served as the Instructional Designer for Lincoln Memorial University's novel Doctor of Medical Science Program, where she played an integral role in curricular development and program design. Elizabeth is married to Josh Rowe, an Associate Professor of Anatomy here at TTUSVM. Together, they have one daughter, Jocelyn. They love to spend time exploring the local terrain and playing with their two dogs. Heather Scalf Program Manager Heather Scalf began her career with the Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine in November 2021, serving as Program Manager for the Office of the Associate Dean of Research. She works closely with the Associate Dean of Research to manage the graduate and professional student Research programs. She also coordinates Research-related events, seminars, and communication. Heather graduated from West Texas A&M University with a B.A. in English. She has previously managed departments and projects related to Creative, Communications, Human Resources, and Strategic Accounts. Heather is an Amarillo native. She and her husband, Joel, stay busy with their two daughters, Avery and Liddy. Everyone knows her favorite family member, though, is the family's rescue dog, Elle. She enjoys savory snacks, walks around the neighborhood, and road trips. Heather enjoys those things too. Kayti Smith Small Animal Husbandry Caretaker Kayti Smith serves as the Small Animal Husbandry Caretaker. She provides care, management, treatment, and documentation of care provided to animals used in the veterinary school program. She began her career with Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine in March 2022. Kayti has worked at several area vet clinics as a veterinary assistant. She brings to the table experience in both small and large animals. She graduated from Olton High School in 2012. She has her certification in Equine Massage Therapy. She has also helped many students with their 4-H and FFA Animal projects. She lives in Claude, Texas with her trustworthy Aussie, BB. Kayti enjoys all Texas Tech sports, especially basketball and baseball. She and her family raise cattle and dorper sheep, which she plays a vital role in taking care of the animals. She grew up very involved in 4-H, FFA, and basketball. She enjoys spending time with family and friends in her spare time. Tyler Tubbs Anatomic Pathology Technician Ty serves as the Anatomic Pathology Technician. He joined the team October 2021. His main duties are to assist with the preparation and performance of necropsies and help in the anatomic pathology laboratory. He graduated from Texas Tech in 2014 with a degree in Animal Science. Ty grew up on a small ranch in Clarendon, Texas. Since graduating from college, he has worked closely within the livestock industry. Ty enjoys silversmithing, being outdoors, cooking for people, spending time with his family and working on the family ranch. He is proud to be working for his Alma Mater, and is excited to watch the school grow. School of Veterinary Medicine Like School of Veterinary Medicine on FacebookLike School of Veterinary Medicine on Facebook Follow School of Veterinary Medicine on twitterFollow School of Veterinary Medicine on twitter Subscribe to School of Veterinary Medicine on YouTubeSubscribe to School of Veterinary Medicine on YouTube Follow School of Veterinary Medicine on InstagramFollow School of Veterinary Medicine on Instagram Address 7671 Evans Drive, Amarillo, Texas 79106 Phone 806.742.3200 Email SVM@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 16, 2022 12:28 PM School of Veterinary Medicine About School of Veterinary Medicine Back Why We Are Here School of Veterinary Medicine Back Our Mission History Core Values General School of Veterinary Medicine Back Accreditation Status Organizational Chart Licensure TTU Vet School Documentation Facilities School of Veterinary Medicine Back Amarillo Campus Mariposa Station Directory School of Veterinary Medicine Back Faculty Staff Giving School of Veterinary Medicine Back Contribute to the Dalton Horn Memorial Scholarship Contact Us School of Veterinary Medicine Back All Departments SVM IT Support Request Academics School of Veterinary Medicine Back DVM Program School of Veterinary Medicine Back Overview Academic Calendar Curriculum Digest Course Descriptions Required Items RaiderVet New Graduate Competencies Clinical Year School of Veterinary Medicine Back Distributed Veterinary Learning Community Clinical Year Curriculum Clinical Facilities Interested in Becoming a Partner Graduate Program School of Veterinary Medicine Back Overview Academic Calendar Resources School of Veterinary Medicine Back Policies and Procedures SVM Library and Information Services Main TTU Library Academic Life Coaching Program Important Contacts School of Veterinary Medicine Back Office of Academic Affairs Office of Clinical Programs Office of Research and Graduate Studies Admissions School of Veterinary Medicine Back General School of Veterinary Medicine Back Overview Application Process Requirements to Apply Selection Process Financial School of Veterinary Medicine Back Cost of Attendance Financial Aid New Mexico Resident Tuition Scholarships FAQ School of Veterinary Medicine Back Transfer policy Meet the Team School of Veterinary Medicine Back Office of Admissions Research School of Veterinary Medicine Back Veterinary Research Scholars Program School of Veterinary Medicine Back Overview Student Application Summer 2022 Potential Mentors and Topics Research Program Faculty School of Veterinary Medicine Back One Health Andragogical Scholarship Disease Ecology, Management and Prevention Sustainability of Animal Agriculture Molecular Mechanisms of Disease Meet the Team School of Veterinary Medicine Back Office of Research and Graduate Studies SVM Research Technical Support Request Student Life School of Veterinary Medicine Back Graduate Students School of Veterinary Medicine Back Graduate Student Association Student Resources School of Veterinary Medicine Back Life in Amarillo Title IX. – Link for reporting a violation Tech Alert System registration Student Disability Services News Join our team School of Veterinary Medicine Back Click for Faculty Positions – enter “Veterinary” and “Amarillo” in search window Click for Staff Positions – enter “Veterinary” and “Amarillo” in search window Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index