Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Degree Programs UofM Global Degrees Humanities Degree Programs Online Degrees Undergraduate Degrees All Undergraduate Degrees Business Computing Health Professions Humanities Social Science Graduate Degrees All Graduate Degrees Arts Business Computing Education Engineering Health Professions Humanities Liberal Studies Social Science Graduate Certificates Complimentary Courses Contact Us Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Humanities | Undergraduate and Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs English The Department of English in the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Memphis is proud to offer the online Bachelor of Arts in English. This degree requires a total of 120 credit hours, 60 hours of which are general education requirements, 27 hours of which must be taken in the major while the remaining hours are lower and upper division elective credits. Learn More History Online B.A. and M.A. program in History, courses taught by dedicated online instructors and tenure/tenure-track faculty, ranging from ancient to modern content, global in scope. Learn More Philosophy The Department of Philosophy offers an online BA in Philosophy with a concentration in Applied Ethics. This program focuses on ethical theories and ethical problem-solving in the context of a number of professional domains including medicine, law, and business. Learn More Liberal Studies Designed for those seeking the personal enrichment provided by progressive learning, the liberal studies degree encourages the development of intellectual skills necessary for lifelong learning—critical reading, scholarly writing, and the art of interpersonal communication. Learn More Graduate Programs Master of Arts in English with a Concentration in ESL You can now earn an M.A. in English or a Certificate in Teaching English as a Second/Foreign Language completely online with UofM Global. Students in the Teaching ESL/EFL concentration take 11 classes [33 credits] for the M.A. and 5 classes for the Certificate that help them develop expertise in second language acquisition, cross-cultural issues, language policy and planning, and second/foreign language instruction. Learn More Master of Arts in History Online B.A. and M.A. program in History, courses taught by dedicated online instructors and tenure/tenure-track faculty, ranging from ancient to modern content, global in scope. Learn More Master of Arts in Technical Communication The Master of Arts in Technical Communication provides students with industry-focused training in technical writing, document design, usability, and project management. In addition to completing a core curriculum of four courses, students work with their advisor to select interdisciplinary electives that best meet their career goals from such areas as rhetoric and writing studies, applied linguistics, instructional design and technology, and nonprofit administration. Learn More Graduate Certificate in Teaching English as a Second/Foreign Language You can now earn a Certificate in Teaching English as a Second/Foreign Language completely online with the University of Memphis' eCampus. Students in the Teaching ESL/EFL concentration take 5 classes for the Certificate that help them develop expertise in second language acquisition, cross-cultural issues, language policy and planning, and second/foreign language instruction. Learn More About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/30/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.