Google Tag Manager Skip to Content (Press Enter) Quicklinks A-Z Index Colleges Locations Careers Give Emergency Info Directory Search Search Options CSUF Site Directory Colleges The Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Extension and International Programs Locations Grand Central Art Center Fullerton Arboretum Careers Emergency Info Give A-Z Index Quicklinks Webmail Academic Advisement Academic Affairs Admissions Registration & Records Associated Students, Inc. Bookstore Campus Dining Career Center Catalog Class Search Daily Titan Financial Aid Housing and Residence Life Human Resources Information Technology Winter Session Parking Police Pollak Library Student Affairs Student Business Services Summer Sessions Transcripts Veterans Resource Center Directory: Search CSUF People California State University, Fullerton Quicklinks Academics Degrees Colleges and Departments The Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Extension and International Programs Academic Calendar Catalog Research more... About CSUF Overview Mission and Goals Facts and Figures Accreditation Divisions Strategic Plan Academic Master Plan Diversity and Inclusion Careers at CSUF Locations Titans Reach Higher more... Pollak Library Titan Athletics Visit the Campus Give to CSUF Student Portal|One Stop Shop Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Parents & Families Alumni Athletics COVID-19 Give About Academics Library Athletics Visit Give to CSUF Commencement 2022 May 23 - 26, 2022 Commencement Information Highlights from Commencement Pause News▸ Governor’s May Revise Includes $67.5 Million for Cal State Fullerton’s Engineering and Computer Science Innovation Hub Track and Field Big West Champs Softball Big West Champs A Leading Voice in L.A. Radio The Supreme Court Decision on Roe v. Wade: Will It Be Overturned? More News For Journalists Feature Titan Graduates Empowered by Commencement 2022 Follow Us Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube More Events▸ All Academics Arts Athletics more Titan of Empowerment: James-Anthony Burandt Titan of Empowerment: Asha Bhattacharya Titan of Resilience: Irwin Gill Titan of Resilience: Kimberly Cruz Learn More Explore Things to Explore Titans Together Diversity, equity and inclusion have always been the bedrock of our commitment to upholding and enhancing a just and welcoming environment; a place where rich academic experiences are equitable for all students and inclusive work settings are bountiful for all faculty and staff. Titan Athletics The Cal State Fullerton Titans participate in the NCAA Division I Big West Conference and have 13 national championships in eight different sports. Pollak Library The Pollak Library provides extensive services and assistance to the CSUF community, as well as to visiting students and scholars, and to the public. The library is nationally recognized for innovative spaces, collections, services, tools, and its programs. Fullerton Arboretum The Fullerton Arboretum is a 26-acre preserve on the northeast corner of campus that is home to the Orange County Agricultural and Nikkei Heritage Museum and Heritage House, an 1894 house-turned-museum. Classes and special events are offered throughout the year. Contacts and Addresses | General: 657-278-2011 | Emergency Closure Info: 877-278-1712 Tell us about a web accessibility problem. | © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Additional Resources Emergency Information University Police CSUF Accessibility | Feedback Form Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Acrobat Reader | Microsoft Viewer Privacy Policy Annual Security Report (Clery) California Campus Safety Plan Title IX Site Index Campus Map CSU This page uses javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.