Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Alumni Menu Search Alumni News and Stories Mustangs in the Wild Mustangs in the Wild These are stories that explore the power of the Mustang spirit to connect us and define who we are today. From the mundane to the fantastic, learn what makes Mustang alumni tick, where to find us in our natural habitat and how we strive to think big and do good after the Hilltop. Sameer Paroo ’01 rides again Sameer Paroo ’01 is an “M” Award-winning, Toronto-born Mustang who grew up in Orlando and completed high school in Plano, Texas. The avid basketball fan has visited approximately 33 countries since finishing graduate school and has worked in both Nairobi, Kenya, and Vancouver, Canada. In fall 2000, as an SMU senior, he represented the Program Council as a Homecoming king candidate in the Homecoming parade. Twenty-one years later, Sameer had the opportunity to ride in the parade again, but this time as chair of the Asian Pacific Islander Alumni of SMU. We caught up with Sameer to see what’s been happening beyond the Hilltop. Learn more Breaking out on her own Creating generational wealth is Lacey A. Horn’s ’04, ’05 business and passion. Learn more Meet malcom McGuire Black Alumni of SMU Chair Malcolm McGuire ’14 is a leader with a passion for mentorship. He first came to SMU as a police officer and later became a patrol sergeant for the SMU Police Department. He earned a Master of Arts in dispute resolution at the Simmons School and made a seamless transition into a new career as an insurance fraud special investigator with the help of his SMU connections. Learn more Kristin W. Henderson ’82 never stops improving On June 1, 2021, Kristin W. Henderson ’82 assumed the role of Alumni Board Chair and will serve jointly as an ex officio to the SMU Board of Trustees for the next two years. She is passionate about SMU and the differences it can make in the lives of others. Learn more = A Witness to History NBC News and MSNBC correspondent Garrett Haake ’07 lives by the advice he learned from an SMU faculty mentor – stay packed, and don’t make any dinner plans that can’t be canceled. Read more Bold Move Whitney Wolfe Herd ’11: Empowering women to make the first move Read more Meet Harvey Luna ’14 A program analyst, cat lover, movie club watcher who reads CBO reports for fun. Learn more Making the Switch from Corporate to Nonprofit At 25 years old, Ana Rodriguez ’03 was one of the youngest assistant vice presidents of Bank of America. She made the jump to nonprofit just before the unexpected economic crash of 2008. Her nonprofit came out swinging, and that wasn’t the first time she beat the odds. Learn more Meet Stephen Reiff ’10 Newlywed, native Oregonian and philanthropic-hearted Stephen Reiff ’10 took the helm of the SMU Young Alumni Board in July 2020. We sat down with him over the internet and asked him a few questions. Learn more Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Groups and Networks Regional Alumni Networks Alumni Affinity Groups Golden Mustangs SMU Network Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Update your info Events Upcoming Events 50-Year Reunion Homecoming Distinguished Alumni Awards Taos Cultural Institute SMU Alumni Travel Program Volunteer Opportunities Alumni Board Young Alumni Board Black Alumni Board Hispanic Alumni Board Asian Pacific Islander Alumni Board Hilltop Volunteers Career Mentoring Admission Volunteers Class Ambassadors Regional Chapter Leaders News and Stories Featured Stories Mustangs in the Wild SMU News Class Notes SMU Magazine SMU Stories Resources Hegi Career Center Continuing Education Order a transcript SMU Bookstore Alumni Credit Card Alumni Insurance Program Refer a Mustang SMU Alumni Relations Giving Give now Alumni Giving SMU Giving Day Mustang Crowdfunding News Athletics SMU Store Cox Alumni Dedman Alumni Dedman Law Alumni Meadows Alumni Perkins Simmons Alumni Update your info Submit a class note Give Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search