Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Early Childhood Development and Education, BS Nurture Educational Experiences for Young Children and Their Families Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Teacher Education, Schl of 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Integrate Learning and Development Practices to Facilitate Growth The B.S. in Early Childhood Development and Education program at UCF prepares you to impact a diverse population of young children and families using research-based, developmentally appropriate practices. Your coursework will provide you with the knowledge and skills in many areas, including child development, social and emotional development, assessment and literacy. Here, we believe that all children deserve a strong foundation in a safe and nurturing environment, using a constructive approach to learning. With two tracks available, you’ll have the opportunity to choose a path that aligns with your professional and personal goals. Both tracks include practical application work as a way to help students apply what they learn by participating in multiple school and agency opportunities. The early childhood development and education program also works closely with the UCF Creative School, which is an NAEYC-accredited child care program on campus. You’ll work closely with faculty to create your individual plan, which may include practicum placements at top organizations such as Nemours and Arnold Palmer children’s hospitals, Make a Wish Foundation, Orlando Science Center, Children’s Home Society, United Cerebral Palsy, Head Start and Early Head Start, among others. Education, Pre-Kindergarten through Primary (K-3) Track (certification) The certification track allows you to explore teaching pedagogy and instructional practices focusing on early childhood education. It’s a great option if you’re interested in teaching pre-kindergarten through third grade. This track meets the educational requirements for certification in pre-kindergarten through third grade. Upon graduating from this Florida state-approved teacher preparation program and passing all three Florida Teacher Certification Examinations, you’ll qualify for the Professional Florida Educator’s Certificate. Additionally, you will graduate with ESOL and Reading Endorsements. Early Childhood Development Track (non-certification) In this track, you’ll take a series of core and specialization courses that prepare you to work with children, parents and families in a variety of settings. Your coursework will cover children’s literature and family systems, as well as courses that meet the requirements to become a certified child life specialist. Child life specialists work in hospital settings and help reduce the stress and anxiety children and families experience related to healthcare and hospitalization. Please note that you will not become certified upon completing this program as there are additional requirements to meet post-graduation. This degree culminates in a semester-long practicum. Highlights Get hands-on experience through practicum placements that include organizations such as Nemours and Arnold Palmer children’s hospitals, Make a Wish Foundation, Orlando Science Center, Children’s Home Society, United Cerebral Palsy, Head Start and Early Head Start, among others. The early childhood and development program works closely with the UCF Creative School, which is an NAEYC-accredited child care program on campus. Florida is expected to see an average of 6,200 annual openings for elementary school teachers through 2028. The Florida median earnings for elementary school teachers is approximately $48K. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Child Life: Psychosocial Care of Children in Health Settings Explore Child Life theory and practice to students wanting to work with children, youth and their families in hospitals and pediatric clinical settings. Classroom Management and Guidance of Young Children Learn techniques to guide behavior of young children, emphasizing classroom management and pro-social skills. Social and Emotional Development of Young Children Gain an in-depth understanding of the social and emotional development of the young child. Examine the implication for curriculum development. The early childhood development and education program continuously challenged all the ideas that I had regarding education and young children. I entered the program thinking I was just going to learn how to teach core subjects, but I left with an awareness of the developmental process that children undergo and with tools to help them achieve that growth." — Maria Spinetti Rincon '19 Early Childhood Development Skills You’ll Learn Gain a thorough knowledge of early child development specifically related to the critical area of social and emotional development of children. Have opportunities to synthesize course objectives across the degree program into practical placements. Infuse technology into course instruction and in practical use in the field. Work with exceptional needs children and English learners. Career Opportunities Kindergarten Teacher Elementary Teacher Preschool Director Head Start Professional Child Development Specialist Child Advocate Early Intervention Specialist Child Life Specialist Education News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Finding Your Passion at UCF Through Research Annaliese Bullock expects to graduate this May with a master’s degree in educational leadership with a track higher education/student personnel track Community UCF Space Experts Work with School Teachers to Bring University Research Alive in Classrooms Local teachers work alongside UCF faculty to develop age-appropriate activities with connections to the Artemis program and other NASA missions. Colleges & Campus Charter Faculty Member Harry O. Hall Recognized University’s Potential The veteran educator — who recently died at 92 — began designing College of Education programs a year before classes started in 1968. Research UCF Professors Awarded NSF Grant to Empower Orange County K-8 Mathematics Teachers Researchers in collaboration with Orange County Public Schools and City Year Orlando launch a program that includes creating a new doctoral specialization. Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Early Childhood Development and Education (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida