Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × PolyForm celebrates mission, spirit of Human Ecology Posted on May 18, 2021 By College of Human Ecology, Media Relations and News Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X KAY OBENDORF: Spring is here, and so is PolyForm. [MUSIC PLAYING] JENNY SABIN: So exciting. This project started in 2013-- so this is a big moment. We're interested in creating a project that, on the one hand, would commemorate Kay's amazing contribution in terms of her work, and pedagogical models, and leadership for the college and her students, but also one that would embrace intersections between science, design and issues of human ecology that would operate across scales. KAY OBENDORF: This structure says to the people walking by, here is human ecology. Come see what they are doing here. And this is a lively, vibrant place with a rich history. JENNY SABIN: And certainly, that encompasses the legacy and history of this college being part of the land-grant side of the university. KAY OBENDORF: Oh. And here you've got the full reflection of Martha Van. JENNY SABIN: Yeah. KAY OBENDORF: Coming up West Path is a perfect way to see the structure and be invited into the pavilion. And seeing people come up to it-- some go in, some go around. JENNY SABIN: The most important part is seeing people interact with it. And that, for me, is success. You know, just the sheer joy, and wonder, and the inspiration that it plays in just creating a moment of pause in one's day is what we hope for. The project has inspired, I think, a number of different types of exchanges, which has been exciting. KAY OBENDORF: I think we have bigger visions of how a design from across the whole campus can come together. And I think that that's been facilitated by our interactions. And so that's the thing of it-- always changing. It's never the same. JENNY SABIN: No, never. [LAUGHS]. KAY OBENDORF: Just like human life. Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. Cornell's College of Human Ecology is celebrating the completion of PolyForm, a 34-foot-wide, walk-through installation designed by Jenny Sabin, professor of architecture in the College of Architecture, Art and Planning, as a centerpiece of the newly renovated Martha Van Rensselaer Hall. The sculpture embodies CHE's mission of interconnectedness with humans at the center. Speakers Jenny Sabin More About art architecture design What to watch next 4:07 MyPlaylist Jenny Sabin on the cutting edge of architecture 3:14 MyPlaylist Jenny Sabin wins the 2017 MoMA PS1 Young Architects Program with 'Lumen' 1:57 MyPlaylist 360-degree tour of AAP professor Jenny Sabin's 'Lumen' at MoMA PS1 surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×