Faculty & Staff - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ UH Resources Undocumented Students COVID-19 Resources ADHD/ LD/ Autism Assessment Faculty & Staff CAPS recognizes that in your critical roles as faculty and staff at the university, you are often the frontline contact with students. CAPS is here to support you, and together, we can promote student success at UH. CAPS staff consists of licensed psychologists, doctoral and masters level mental health professionals and advanced graduate trainees in counseling and clinical psychology. CAPS offers clinical and consultative support to all UH staff and faculty. UH faculty and staff are eligible for crisis triage and referrals. While CAPS does not provide on-going psychotherapy to faculty and staff, we will work to identify the most appropriate referral for you. The UH Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is a common referral option. The EAP provides mental health, financial, and legal assistance to eligible employees and their families. You may also find referral options by viewing our Referrals page. In addition, the following services are offered to support you in your work with students and each other: CAPS Liaisons Each CAPS staff member has an on-going liaison relationship with a department, college, and/or student group at UH. This liaison relationship helps to bridge the gap between CAPS services and the campus community by educating you on how to deal with individuals facing mental health issues. We invite you to contact your liaison with any questions about our programs and services, to consult if you have an individual of concern, or for guidance on how to refer someone to CAPS. Your liaison is also available to attend a departmental meeting to discuss programs and services and to answer any questions. If you have an urgent issue about an individual of concern that requires an immediate response, we encourage you to call 713-743-5454. During office hours you will be connected to the Consultant on Duty and after hours we have counselors on call that can provide immediate guidance. Let’s Talk If you prefer to meet in person, you can consult a CAPS clinician by visiting one of our Let’s Talk locations around campus. Trainings/workshops While CAPS is here to support you and your work with students, we also want to empower you with basic skills to help you feel better equipped to handle certain situations. We offer trainings on how to recognize the signs of an individual who is struggling or at risk and how to refer them for treatment, on suicide prevention, or on a specific mental health topic at the request of your department/college. If you would like to schedule a training, please complete our outreach request form. Defusing and Debriefing In the unfortunate event that your department/college has been affected by a traumatic event (e.g., death by suicide or homicide, natural disaster, events with a high degree of threat to the UH community, or any significantly distressing event), you may request your liaison or an available CAPS clinician to come to your department/college to provide support and help you and members of your community process the traumatic event through the outreach request form. We will also connect you to additional resources as needed. Self-help resources If you desire resources that you can do yourself when it is most convenient for you, please visit our Self Help Resources page where you will find videos on a variety of mental health topics, audio relaxation exercises, Houston area yoga and meditation resources, and other mental health-related websites. CAPS Staff CAPS staff consists of doctoral and masters level clinicians, as well as, advanced graduate trainees in counseling and clinical psychology. Contact Information CAPS is located on the UH campus and on the UH at Sugar Land Instructional Site Office Hours Related Links UH Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Community Referrals CAPS Liaisons Let's Talk Program Outreach Request CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Self-Help Resources University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies