Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Public Engagement Engaged Cornellians Leading positive change locally and globally Public engagement is foundational to everything we do as an institution. By contributing to this deep-rooted university commitment, our students, faculty, staff and alumni — Engaged Cornell — are forging community partnerships, solving local and global challenges and creating knowledge to benefit humanity. 270+ Community-engaged learning courses offered by the university 7,000 Students working annually in local communities 544 Engagements with federal policymakers (2019) 1.7M New Yorkers reached by Cornell Cooperative Extension programs each year Engaged students, scholars and communities As they lead positive change in the world, our students, faculty, staff and alumni are creating a legacy of engaged Cornellians. Student Translator-Interpreter Program breaks language barriers Program trains bilingual and multilingual students to serve as translators and interpreters for the community in both emergency and non-emergency situations. Lessons in Collaborative Instruction and Community Engaged Design Conversations across architecture, landscape architecture, and planning have been made possible through the collaborative strategies of studios focused around work in Salamanca, NY. Student grants serve communities from New York to Ethiopia Students aim to reduce aviation emissions, support farmworkers and improve a New York animal shelter with the David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement’s Serve in Place awards. Bugged out! Exhibit displays insect diversity and importance The exhibit at the Paleontological Research Institution’s Museum of the Earth in Ithaca was created in collaboration with Cornell entomologists Education Education Research Public Service At the annual Community Engagement Showcase, engaged Cornellians connect on projects they’re pursuing with local partners around the globe. From their first day through graduation, students have opportunities to engage with communities and make a difference in the world — through classes, labs, field research, study abroad and internships. Led by Cornell, the Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector-Borne Diseases pursues vital research related to tick-borne diseases and public health. As a world-class research institution, Cornell seeks to generate knowledge for the public good, translating ideas into solutions that benefit individuals, communities and industries. The statue of Ezra Cornell on the Arts Quad. Founded in 1865 as New York state’s land-grant institution, Cornell has pursued public engagement from its beginnings, building lasting connections to communities statewide. Connecting and Enriching Communities Cornell relies on a robust exchange of ideas with the public to understand local needs, develop and implement solutions, and deepen community capacity. Building upon the unique strengths of our partners, our public engagement includes extension, outreach, policy briefings, solutions-oriented institutes and much more. Serving New York State As New York’s land-grant institution, with our Ithaca campus within the ancestral homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫɁ Nation, Cornell creates and disseminates knowledge that improves the quality of life for all people in our state. More about Cornell's New York State Impact. Get Involved Engaged Cornell Hub The Engaged Cornell Hub, which is currently staffed virtually during the pandemic, is the front door for students to connect and learn more about public engagement at Cornell. Engaged Cornell Hub The Engaged Cornell Hub, which is currently staffed virtually during the pandemic, is the front door for students to connect and learn more about public engagement at Cornell. Learn more Public Engagement Links Students Engaged Cornell Hub Experience Cornell Global Cornell The Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Student & Campus Life Volunteer Opportunities Office of Undergraduate Research Faculty and Staff Public Engagement Council Navigate David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Center for Teaching Innovation Cornell Institute of Politics and Global Affairs Center for Transformative Action Cornell Center for Health Equity Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability Alumni Cornell Cares Day CUVolunteer Community Cornell Cooperative Extension Community Relations Community Work-Study Indigenous Engagement Lab of Ornithology Botanic Gardens Herbert F. Johnson Museum Art Continue Exploring … Back to top Undergraduate Research Education Abroad Cooperative Extension Sustainability Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather 79°F / 26°C Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube