Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Theater-Design MFA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Theater-Design MFA Apply Request More Info Theater-Design MFA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Fine Arts in Design Advance your career building the visual experience of contemporary theater with the Master of Fine Arts in Design in Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Specialize in costume, lighting and scene design, and develop your creative passion for bringing a story to life on the stage. Graduates with an MFA in Design primarily go on to work in theater, as well as the entertainment industry and higher education. Students in this three-year, full-time graduate conservatory program have opportunities to work closely with professional faculty and guest artists, participating in fully mounted productions. Since the Theater Department is part of Temple’s interdisciplinary Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts, Theater-Design MFA students complete intensive training in the full range of theatrical design practice areas, including costume crafts, drawing and rendering, projection design, and model making. Starting in your first year, and continuing on through the full duration of the program, you’ll assist in the creation of designs within professional productions. In your third year, you’ll produce a production-based thesis with a written component. Full-time professional design faculty individually mentor each Theater-Design MFA student based on a customized and flexible curriculum. Through Temple’s informal affiliations in Philadelphia, you can explore internships with organizations including The Freedom Theatre, The Lighting Practice and The Philadelphia Theatre Company. Classes & Curriculum The Theater-Design MFA curriculum is built around a combination of experiential learning and classroom studies tailored to give you an in-depth understanding of American musical theater, the business aspects of theater, and techniques for directing and scene setting. Unique courses include Design for TV and Film, History of Decor, History of Fashion, Theatrical Model Making, and Projection Design. Learn more about Theater-Design MFA courses. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Fine Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Students in the Theater Department’s graduate program are advised by their area head. All students are reviewed each semester by their mentors to discuss progress and registrations. The department administrators register all graduate students for their courses. Program Contact Fred M. Duer is the head of scene design in the Theater Department and a program contact for the Theater-Design MFA. Phone: 215-204-2804 Email: fmduer@temple.edu Jason Norris is an assistant professor of lighting and projection design in the Theater Department and a program contact for the Theater-Design MFA. Phone: 215-204-1050 Email: jason.norris@temple.edu Marie Anne Chiment is the head of costume design in the Theater Department and a program contact for the Theater-Design MFA. Phone: 215-204-4024 Email: marie.chiment@temple.edu Accreditation The Theater Department is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre as well as a member of the University Resident Theatre Association. Concentrations You can focus on Theater-Design or you can take one of the following concentrations. Design CA-THDS-MFA Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Theater-Design MFA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info