Skip to main content Iowa State University Office of Admissions Menu Toggle Search Visit Apply My Account Main navigation Admissions Admissions Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Graduate Admissions Next Steps / Timeline Financial Aid Request info Contact Us Related Links Nontraditional Nondegree Veterinary Medicine Military Why ISU Academics Academics Academic Programs Colleges Transfer Credit Credit by Exam Orientation Honors Program Learning Communities Apply Visit Related Links Course Equivalency Guides Transfer Plans TRANSIT Supplementary Course List Admissions Partnership Program Destination Iowa State Cost + Aid Campus Living Campus Living Housing ISU Dining Diversity and Inclusion International Students and Scholars Clubs and Organizations Recreation Services Student Health Athletics Apply Visit Related Links Student Leaders Sorority and Fraternity Entertainment Traditions Distinguished Alumni Why ISU Visit Application National Scholars Financing Cost of Attendance FAFSA Freshman Awards Transfer Awards International Students OneApp Student Employment Student Financial Success National Scholars World-class world changers Iowa State is proud of its ability to attract talented students from across the nation. Our community of scholars includes those students in the National Merit and National Recognition programs. Iowa State University participates in the National Merit Scholarship Corporation's academic competition, the National Merit Scholarship Program, for recognition and undergraduate scholarships. To enter the scholarship contest, students must complete the PSAT/NMSQT (Preliminary SAT/National Merit Scholarship Qualifying Test). Students recognized in the College Board's National Recognition Program are good candidates for scholarships at Iowa State. Students should complete the PSAT/NMSQT to qualify for academic recognition. National Merit Program Iowa Resident National Merit Scholars Iowa residents who are named National Merit Scholars by the National Merit Scholarship Corporation will qualify for a full tuition scholarship available for four years (eight semesters) of undergraduate coursework at Iowa State University. To renew this award, the student must remain continuously enrolled at Iowa State University on a full-time basis as an Iowa resident in good academic standing and maintain a minimum of 3.00 cumulative grade point average. This award is available during fall and spring semesters only, not during the summer session. Students who receive the full tuition scholarship are not eligible for other merit awards from the Office of Admissions including the Loyal Forever True Awards for Iowa residents. Nonresident National Merit Scholars The National Merit Scholarship program at Iowa State University benefits high-achieving academic students from across the United States. Nonresidents can be selected to receive the Iowa State college-sponsored scholarship through the National Merit Scholarship Corporation (NMSC) worth $500/year. Students recognized in the National Merit Scholarship competition can be eligible for a scholarship from one of our undergraduate colleges. Iowa State offers automatic merit-based awards and scholarships awarded through the OneApp scholarship portal. Eligibility Requirements To become eligible, students must complete all of the following: Complete the Preliminary SAT®/National Merit Scholarship Qualifying Test Be named a National Merit Semifinalist Apply and be offered admission to Iowa State University Notify the National Merit Scholarship Corporation that Iowa State University is your "first choice college" Submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) Be named a National Merit Finalist and Scholar Specific scholarship guidelines concerning the National Merit Scholarship Program are provided on the National Merit Scholarship Corporation's homepage For more information on how to become part of Iowa State's community of scholars, call 515 294-5836 or email HighAbility@iastate.edu. National Recognition Program Iowa State University acknowledges the College Board's National Recognition Program. Students can be considered for Automatic Freshmen Merit Awards. They may qualify to apply for our prestigious full-tuition George Washington Carver Scholarship. Eligibility Requirements To be considered for these awards, students must: Apply and be offered admission to Iowa State Submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) Complete the OneApp scholarship application followed by the George Washington Carver Scholarship Opportunity application Specific guidelines concerning the National Recognition Program are provided on the College Board's website. For more information on how to become part of Iowa State's community of scholars, call 515 294-5836 or email HighAbility@iastate.edu. Additional Opportunities The university provides a variety of merit-based scholarships and special academic opportunities for academically gifted students. These include participation in 100 programs of study, the comprehensive University Honors Program, undergraduate research, and other academic scholarships. For more information on how to become part of Iowa State's community of scholars, call 515 294-5836 or email HighAbility@iastate.edu. Apply Every Cyclone adventure begins with a first step. Apply now so you can start taking the world by storm. Start Your Adventure Visit Take a look around, and we’re sure you’ll fall in love with our beautiful, nationally recognized campus. Schedule Your Visit Iowa State University Office of Admissions Contact Office of Admissions Enrollment Services Center Ames, IA 50011 Call or text: 515-294-5836 Soults Family Visitors Center 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50014 Quick Links New Student Programs Counselor Directory Chat with students and staff Request Information Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Analytics Disclaimer Loading...