You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page. Turn on more accessible mode Turn off more accessible mode Skip Ribbon Commands Skip to main content Turn off Animations Turn on Animations Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff DePaul University DePaul Shortcuts Student Life Life at DePaul Student Organizations Housing Virtual Campus Tour DeBlogs Career Center Athletics Art Museum Student Affairs Bookstore About Academics Admission & Aid Student Life Alumni & Friends Request Info Apply DePaul Shortcuts Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Apply Online Request Info Visit Campus About Rankings Campuses Chicago Events Mission President Administration Distinctions History & Timeline Accreditation & Licensure Academics Undergraduate Graduate Online Degrees Continuing Education Career Success Academic Catalog Colleges & Schools Research Corporate Education Academic Affairs Admission & Aid Types of Admission Visit DePaul Tuition Room & Board Scholarships Financial Aid Veteran Student Test Credit & Placement Check Your Application Status Admitted Students Immunization Student Life Life at DePaul Student Organizations Housing Virtual Campus Tour DeBlogs Career Center Athletics Art Museum Student Affairs Bookstore Alumni & Friends Request Info Apply Student Life Life at DePaul Student Organizations Housing Virtual Campus Tour DeBlogs Career Center Athletics Art Museum Student Affairs Bookstore Apply Online Request Info Visit Campus DePaul University > Student Life > Life at DePaul Life at DePaul Main Content Explore life at DePaul your way. Start by selecting any of the tiles below — the more you select, the more you’ll discover. Student to Faculty ratio 16:1 At DePaul, you’ll get to know your professors and they will get to know you. In fact, the average class size is 20 students. Athletics As an NCAA Division I school, sports and student life go hand-in-hand at DePaul. You’ll even receive a free ticket to all DePaul home games. So, grab some friends, sport your blue and keep an eye out for our mascot, DIBS. NCAA Division I Sports As a proud member of the BIG EAST Conference, DePaul sponsors 15 sports, most notably our men’s and women’s basketball teams who prove nothing is more exciting than DePaul ball. Catch great college hoops at the new 10,000-seat Wintrust Arena. Spirit You can experience the fun and excitement up close when members of the Screamin’ Demons Band, cheerleading, dance or mascot squads perform at home games and campus events. Spirit members have the chance to travel to New York City for the BIG EAST Basketball Tournament and to NCAA Championships. Blue Crew Join the Blue Crew and lead the student section from the front row, or gather with your friends on the Demon Deck at Wintrust Arena. Support your Blue Demon volleyball, soccer and softball teams on campus at McGrath-Phillips Arena and Cacciatore Stadium. Get pumped for basketball at Blue Madness and the free food truck tailgates. Horns up, Blue Demons! Back to grid Which DePaul graduate stars in Stranger Things? Answer Joe Keery stars as Steve Harrington in “Stranger Things.” Keery graduated from the Theatre School in 2014. Student Clubs With more than 350 student clubs and organizations, it's easy to meet new people and explore your passions at DePaul. And if you don’t see the kind of group you’re looking for, we make it easy to start your own. Student Media You can experience journalism and broadcasting by joining our student-run media channels. Including Radio DePaul, The DePaulia newspaper, 14 East magazine and our news show, “Good Day DePaul.” Student Government Represent DePaul students by joining the Student Government Association (SGA). You’ll work with university administrators and even state and local officials to voice student opinions and enhance the college experience. eSports Gamers wanted — whether you’re pursuing eSports as a career or just a passionate gamer, you’ll feel right at home within DePaul’s eSports community. Play with friends at a pop-up gaming lounge, or compete with DePaul’s team at the BIG EAST eSports tournament. Back to grid Our Vincentian Mission St. Vincent de Paul was a 17th century French Catholic priest loved for his compassion, humility and generosity. Today, we honor his legacy through our passion for service, inclusivity and diversity in Chicago and beyond. Vincentian Service Day On Vincentian Service Day, thousands of students, staff and alumni participate in a day of service. From volunteering in homeless shelters to planting community gardens, members of the DePaul community have the opportunity to serve at more than 35 organizations across Chicago. Service Immersion Trips If you’re looking for a unique way to spend a school break, consider a Service Immersion trip. Every year, students can dedicate their time off to service, reflection, community and spirituality. Past trips have included working with those experiencing homelessness in Los Angeles and learning about restorative justice in Colombia. “DePaul stays true to its Vincentian mission by focusing on promoting the concept of inclusivity.” Garima Business Administration Major Back to grid Our Campuses At DePaul, your “college town” is the entire city of Chicago. Find out what our students think of our two campuses located in two very different parts of the city. Loop Campus Our Loop Campus is in the heart of the city, home of Chicago's largest business district and surrounded by internship opportunities and potential employers. Comprised mostly of high-rise buildings, the Loop gives the city its signature skyline. Lincoln Park Lincoln Park is a charming neighborhood, bordered by Lake Michigan and Chicago’s largest park. It’s loved for its restaurants, shops, Lincoln Park Zoo and, of course, DePaul. Located just a few ‘L’ stops north of downtown Chicago, our Lincoln Park Campus feels like a traditional university campus—quad and all. Getting Around Chicago Chicago’s a big city, but the Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) ‘L’ trains make it easy to get around. You can travel between our Lincoln Park and Loop campuses in 15 minutes. Just scan your U-Pass, your pre-loaded transportation pass, for unlimited rides on all trains and buses. Back to grid Career Success Rate 91% 91% of recent bachelor’s degree recipients were employed, continuing education or pursuing other goals within 6 months of graduation. Student Services We want to make your time at DePaul as successful as possible. Check out a few of the important services we offer our students. Career Center The Career Center is a powerful ally in your search for internships and jobs. Receive help crafting your résumé, preparing for interviews, narrowing your job search and more. By helping you shape your skills, the center sets you up for a lifetime of success. Financial Aid DePaul is committed to making college as affordable as possible. We strive to inform you about all of the scholarships, grants, loans and work-study opportunities available. To speak to a financial aid expert, contact DePaul Central at dpcl@depaul.edu. Study Abroad We believe there’s no better way to expand your horizons than studying abroad. As well as the term-length programs you can take after your first year, you may be surprised to learn we offer many short 8- to 12-day opportunities for freshmen to study abroad. As a student you can join one of our “Study Abroad 101” information sessions to find out more. Public Safety The DePaul Public Safety Department works 24 hours a day, 365 days a year to ensure your safety. Safety escorts are available during times of low activity from 6 pm to 6 am. Additionally, blue emergency call boxes, located throughout campus, can be used to report crimes and request help. Back to grid Student Housing Getting your own place is one of the most exciting parts of going to college. Whether you’re living in a dorm or an apartment, Lincoln Park or Loop, you’ll feel at home among nearly 3,000 DePaul students who live in campus housing. Check out what our students have to say about life in residence halls. Residence Halls Our residence halls are social communities where students recognize and respect one another's individuality and self-expression. There are a variety of different room layouts to help you find your fit — and all residences include community kitchens and study lounges. Campus Apartments Our campus apartments offer students more independence, while still allowing them to feel connected to DePaul through staff-sponsored activities and convenient proximity to campus events. Virtual Housing Tour Take an online tour of our housing options in the Lincoln Park and Loop campuses. Back to grid Why is DePaul’s team name the Blue Demons? Answer In 1907, DePaul’s athletes were referred to as “D-Men,” based on the large “D” on their uniforms—which evolved into the Blue Demons. Chicago As one of the largest cities in the U.S., Chicago is known for its impressive architecture, wealth of culture and variety of food. Culture in Chicago Cultural gems are hidden around every corner. From must-see museums to historic music venues, there’s so much to explore. Head to the Lollapalooza music festival in the summer. Visit one of the world’s great museums, the Art Institute. See a show and take your picture underneath the famous “CHICAGO” sign at the Chicago Theatre. Chicago Eats Foodies will feel right at home here. From Michelin-starred restaurants to legendary hot dog joints, Chicago has an incredible food scene. Some of the Windy City’s most iconic dishes include deep dish pizza, Chicago-style hot dogs and Italian Beef sandwiches. Chicago Quarter As a first-year student at DePaul, you’ll get acquainted with the city of Chicago through your Chicago Quarter classes. With more than 100 of these courses offered, you can choose from options like Second City News: Journalism in Chicago; Summer Sports in Chicago; and Chicago’s Public Arts and Murals. “Walking to Millennium Park or the Art Institute after class makes me feel like I’m getting the most out of living in Chicago.” Jacob Marketing Major Back to grid @IAMDEPAUL @IAMDEPAUL lets you see DePaul through the eyes of a different student each week. Check out some recent posts—and don’t forget to follow them on Instagram! Jason Taking the Brown or Red Line train between Lincoln Park and Loop Campus can be productive - and fun. You get spectacular views of downtown skyscrapers taking the Brown Line but the Red Line is faster. Either way, it gives you time to read, socialize with friends or finish last-minute assignments! -Jason Sabrina Transferring to DePaul from a small state school was no easy task, but I did it! As a journalism student, I’ve enjoyed writing for The DePaulia and Juniper magazine, as well as exploring my passion for special events planning. -Sabrina Matthew I’ve had a blast studying abroad in Rome, Italy. The food, the culture, the history! When I get up in the morning, I can’t wait to go to class when world-famous landmarks serve as our “classroom.” It’s been the opportunity of a lifetime! -Matthew Sophia One of the best pieces of advice I got was to get involved on campus. As a business major, I wanted an organization that surrounded me with passionate people with similar career paths. I decided to rush Delta Sigma Pi, where I’ve made so many close friends whom I get to call my brothers and mentors. -Sophia Back to grid Undergraduate Majors 130+ Our wide variety of majors make it easy for you to find the perfect fit. DePaul Traditions At DePaul, you’ll take part in our famous and fun traditions. Scroll through a few of our favorite annual events. Blue Demon Week Blue Demon Week is a weeklong celebration of what it means to be a Blue Demon. It includes countless events like a birthday party for our mascot, DIBS, and volunteer opportunities that embody our Vincentian mission. Fest Childish Gambino. Lil Yachty. Diplo. These are just a few of the artists that have headlined Fest, a student-run music festival that celebrates the end of the academic year. Keep an eye out for lineup announcements in the spring. Midnight Breakfast Pancakes make everything better—even finals. Come out for a stack this November at our annual Midnight Breakfast and introduce yourself to DePaul President A. Gabriel Esteban and his wife, Josephine. Graduation Every year, a graduation class crosses the stage at Wintrust Arena and into their future. It’s not just a special day for students, it’s a proud day for family and faculty as well! Back to grid Internships With our learning experiences, we encourage all students to complete internships. Need some help in your search? The Career Center leverages resources and connections within Chicago’s bustling job market to help you find the perfect fit. Chloé’s Internship Chloé, a junior majoring in Chemistry, worked at The Field Museum as part of the Dean's Undergraduate Fellowship program. She gained experience working in all of the museum’s different departments and got the chance to work with DNA samples. “An important part of the DNA process is making sure there is DNA to analyze! This picture shows me loading a gel with DNA.” Jalena’s Internship Jalena landed a web producer internship at WGN-TV, where she gained experience in writing news articles and working on HTML code. “I had more experience than I ever expected. … My internship lasted 10 weeks, and I learned so much. I use the skills I practiced at WGN daily.” Yves’ Internship Landing an internship at Google was a dream come true for Yves, a tech lover and full-time MBA student at DePaul. “For my internship, I am supporting the Google Cloud's Professional Services team in helping customers implement Google cloud products into their business operations.” Back to grid Schedule a Visit Attend an on-campus or virtual visit day, join an online information session, or schedule an appointment with an admission counselor. Get Started Maya Hi everyone! I’m a senior from Oconomowoc, Wisconsin, majoring in Biological Sciences. I’m the president of the Pathways Honors Society, treasurer for the Pre-Medicine Undergraduate Mentorship Program and was part of a team who presented at the Chicago Area Undergraduate Research Symposium (CAURS). I love exploring the city with my friends and going to concerts. I was also a Chicago Quarter (CQ) Mentor for two years. In this role, I taught the Common Hour portion of CQ classes, and helped guide freshmen through the transition into college. It’s been the favorite part of my college experience so far! DePaul University Apply Request Info Visit Campus Directory 1 E. Jackson Blvd. Chicago, IL 60604 (312) 362-8000 Library Athletics Careers Events facebooktwitterinstagram 2001-2018 DePaul University | Disclaimer | Contact Us | Emergency Plan | Consumer Information | IBHE Complaints | Privacy StatementEditor Login Life at DePaul