Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities for Students Toggle information Close detail panel Harvard College students at a Harvard Radcliffe Institute event. Photo By Kevin Grady/Radcliffe Institute Harvard Radcliffe Institute is a cross-disciplinary laboratory of ideas that brings together students, scholars, and practitioners to engage with issues that can only be fully understood by drawing on research from across the humanities, sciences, social sciences, arts, and professions. The Institute is unique among Harvard schools: Although we do not award degrees, we offer unparalleled opportunities for undergraduates and graduate students. Harvard Radcliffe Institute provides learning and research experiences that are difficult to find in a traditional classroom setting. Radcliffe students work directly with our fellows and faculty, providing unique opportunities for mentorship, and they work across departmental boundaries, connecting with peers across the University. Harvard Radcliffe Institute enriches the Harvard student experience by fostering interdisciplinary, engaged scholarship focused on the most pressing issues of our time. Opportunities for Harvard Undergraduates Opportunities for Harvard Graduate Students Student Employment Opportunities Harvard Radcliffe Institute has been a huge part of my College experience. I first started working there as a research assistant to a fellow who was studying NOW [the National Organization for Women]. Then I was on the student advisory board, and now I’m working with Emerging Leaders. It’s a wonderful way to work with the Institute outside the realm of research, and it feels really good to be giving back to the wider community. Lauren Fadiman ’21 Emerging Leaders mentor More on the Emerging Leaders Program I loved the idea that Harvard Radcliffe Institute—with its mission and legacy and the resources collected in the Schlesinger Library—was experimenting with new programs and trying to rethink how it can bridge different communities. Shivani Aggarwal ’21 Emerging Leaders mentor More on the Emerging Leaders Program From the start, I always thought of my Radcliffe experience almost like a fifth class—which you get paid for. It always felt too good to be true, and it’s been such a treat to be part of it. Theodore R. Delwiche ’18 Former Radcliffe Research Partner More on the Radcliffe Research Partnership Program 01 / 03 Slide left Slide right Opportunities for Harvard Undergraduates Radcliffe Engaged Student Grant Program The Radcliffe Engaged Student Grant Program provides $1,500 stipends per project to support the research, creative, and service work of Harvard undergraduate and graduate students on topics related to the Radcliffe Engaged focus areas. Applications are currently being accepted for Summer 2022. All applications must be received by 11:59 PM EST on Sunday, May 1, 2022. More on the Radcliffe Engaged Student Grant Program Law, Education, and Justice Working Groups Harvard Radcliffe Institute’s Law, Education, and Justice (LEJ) working groups center dialogue and give students the opportunity to engage deeply and build community around important topics within LEJ. Applications are currently being accepted for “The War on Drugs” working group. All applications must be received by 11:59 PM EST on Monday, February 14, 2022. More on Law, Education, and Justice Working Groups Carol K. Pforzheimer Student Fellowships Carol K. Pforzheimer Student Fellowships provide funding to Harvard undergraduates to do research in the Schlesinger Library's collections. Harvard Radcliffe Institute’s Schlesinger Library is committed to supporting students to pursue their own research. Applications are currently being accepted. All applications must be received by 11:59 PM EST on Sunday, February 27, 2022. More on Carol K. Pforzheimer Student Fellowship Radcliffe Research Partnerships The Radcliffe Research Partnership (RRP) program matches Harvard College students with Radcliffe fellows in a research and mentorship program. Fellows act as mentors, while students provide research assistance, acquire valuable research skills, and participate in the Institute’s rich intellectual life. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. More on Radcliffe Research Partnerships Call for Student Art Submissions The Presidential Initiative on Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery is issuing a call for student art submissions to support a virtual walking tour. We encourage submissions that reflect student perspectives and connect to the history of slavery and the African American experience at Harvard. This opportunity is open to all undergraduate and graduate students currently enrolled in a Harvard degree program. Submissions are due at 5 PM ET on January 31, 2022. More on Student Art Submissions Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery Student Grant Program The Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery Student Grant Program provides $1,500 stipends per project to support the research and creative work of Harvard undergraduate and graduate students on the topic of Harvard and the legacy of slavery, broadly defined. Applications are due by 11:59 PM ET on Sunday, May 1, 2022. More on the Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery Student Grant Program Emerging Leaders Program The Emerging Leaders Program is an innovative new youth mentorship program focused on gender and leadership. The program partners current Harvard undergraduates with high school students from the surrounding Cambridge area. Together, they challenge limited conceptions of who can be a leader and who belongs in elite institutions of higher education, and they build critical skills to drive positive change. We are no longer accepting applications for the 2021–2022 academic year. More on the Emerging Leaders Program Radcliffe Community-Based Student Internships The Radcliffe Community-Based Student Internship (CBSI) program matches Harvard students with community organizations, based largely in the greater Boston area, for paid spring term internships. The program aims to foster community engagement by providing experiential learning opportunities to students that have real-world impact, while building new, meaningful relationships among community-based organizations, Harvard students, and the Institute. We are no longer accepting applications for the 2021–2022 academic year. More on Community-Based Student Internships Student Advisory Board Student Advisory Board (SAB) members shape student-related programs and experiences and represent the Institute at their respective schools and departments. Through interdisciplinary and engaged work, SAB members collaborate with students across Harvard schools, departments, and classes to shape and share Radcliffe resources and opportunities with other Harvard students. We are no longer accepting applications for the 2021–2022 academic year. More on the Student Advisory Board Stay Connected Subscribe to receive e-mail invitations to student-only events and updates on the opportunities listed on this page. Join the Harvard Radcliffe Institute Student Listserv Opportunities for Harvard Graduate Students Radcliffe Engaged Student Grant Program The Radcliffe Engaged Student Grant Program provides $1,500 stipends per project to support the research, creative, and service work of Harvard undergraduate and graduate students on topics related to the Radcliffe Engaged focus areas. Applications are currently being accepted for Summer 2022. All applications must be received by 11:59 PM EST on Sunday, May 1, 2022. More on the Radcliffe Engaged Student Grant Program Graduate Student Fellowships PhD candidates at all Harvard faculties who plan to finish writing their dissertation in 2022–2023 are invited to apply. Graduate student fellows participate in the Radcliffe Institute Fellowship Program by attending all weekly fellows’ talks and lunches and are invited, though not required, to present their own work in a talk to the fellows. Applications are due on February 11, 2022. More on Graduate Student Fellowships Law, Education, and Justice Working Groups Harvard Radcliffe Institute’s Law, Education, and Justice (LEJ) working groups center dialogue and give students the opportunity to engage deeply and build community around important topics within LEJ. Applications are currently being accepted for “The War on Drugs” working group. All applications must be received by 11:59 PM EST on Monday, February 14, 2022. More on Law, Education, and Justice Working Groups Call for Student Art Submissions The Presidential Initiative on Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery is issuing a call for student art submissions to support a virtual walking tour. We encourage submissions that reflect student perspectives and connect to the history of slavery and the African American experience at Harvard. This opportunity is open to all undergraduate and graduate students currently enrolled in a Harvard degree program. Submissions are due at 5 PM ET on December 15, 2021. More on Student Art Submissions Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery Student Grant Program The Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery Student Grant Program provides $1,500 stipends per project to support the research and creative work of Harvard undergraduate and graduate students on the topic of Harvard and the legacy of slavery, broadly defined. Applications are due by 11:59 PM ET on Sunday, May 1, 2022. More on the Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery Student Grant Program Radcliffe Community-Based Student Internships The Radcliffe Community-Based Student Internship (CBSI) program matches Harvard students with community organizations, based largely in the greater Boston area, for paid spring term internships. The program aims to foster community engagement by providing experiential learning opportunities to students that have real-world impact, while building new, meaningful relationships among community-based organizations, Harvard students, and the Institute. We are no longer accepting applications for the 2021–2022 academic year. More on Community-Based Student Internships Student Advisory Board Student Advisory Board (SAB) members shape student-related programs and experiences and represent the Institute at their respective schools and departments. Through interdisciplinary and engaged work, SAB members collaborate with students across Harvard schools, departments, and classes to shape and share Radcliffe resources and opportunities with other Harvard students. We are no longer accepting applications for the 2021–2022 academic year. More on the Student Advisory Board News & Ideas Busola Banjoh Redefines What It Means to Be Black at Harvard Winding through the Disciplines Angst, Flour, Order Student brings community-oriented vision to LEJ work The Halls of History: A Personal Course in the Legacies of Slavery Fighting COVID-19 Where it Thrives Birth of a Sleuth Putting Prosecutors on the Stand in Probe of Mass Incarceration At Summer of HOPE, Empowerment Not Punishment In Research on Feminism and Gay Rights, a Case for Unity In Dark Chapter of Harvard’s History, Family Subplots Follow Us Tomorrow, May 27, we celebrate Radcliffe Day 2022, when we will award the Radcliffe Medal to the nationally renowned civil rights lawyer and scholar Sherrilyn Ifill. The festivities will open with a panel, “Higher Education Access and the American Workforce,” which will will consider ways in which to build an educational system that is accessible and equitable and that enables students of all backgrounds, interests, and abilities to secure stable livelihoods in a changing workforce. Learn more about the day, including how to watch the live webcast, by clicking on the Linktree in our bio. Photo 1: Ifill at the LDF 31st National Equal Justice Awards Dinner in November 2017. Photo by Dave Kotinsky/Getty Images for NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc. Photo 2: Ifill and our 2019 Radcliffe Medalist, Dolores Huerta, in 2022. Stefanie Keenan/Getty Images for TIME #RadDay22 #sherrilynifill #RadcliffeMedal #Harvard #RadcliffeInstitute #law #education #opportunity View this post on Instagram Three Harvard seniors were honored today by Harvard Radcliffe Institute with the prestigious Captain Jonathan Fay Prize, annually awarded for the very best theses of Harvard College’s graduating class. Their work was selected from among 73 Hoopes Prize–winning projects. Zelin Liu (center left) translated and used archeology to reinterpret rarely translated Latin text. Ethan Seder (far left) invented CrashPak, an airbag for cyclists that could revolutionize bicycle safety. And Benjamin P. Wenzelberg (far right) composed a joyous Joycean opera. Each is pictured here with Radcliffe Dean Tomiko Brown-Nagin. Congratulations to these brilliant soon-to-be grads! 📸 Kevin Grady/Harvard Radcliffe Institute View this post on Instagram Harvard Radcliffe Institute today announced its 2022–2023 fellows, a cohort that brings ambitious projects and exciting possibilities to Radcliffe and the wider Harvard community—from fiction and art to bold innovations like a robotic fish that gives biologists an unfiltered view of aquatic behavior and algorithms to provide real-time interventions for substance abuse, mental illness, or heart disease. The Harvard Radcliffe Institute Fellowship Program, now in its 22nd year, offers scholars and practitioners in the humanities, sciences, social sciences, and arts—as well as writers, journalists, and others—a rare opportunity to pursue their work in a vibrant interdisciplinary community. The read the announcement and see the full list of fellows, see the Linktree in our bio. View this post on Instagram Radcliffe Institute Retweeted Sherrilyn Ifill @Sifill_LDF 4 days ago The words of my friend & colleague ⁦@eji_org⁩ founder & Executive Director Bryan Stevenson are always gold to me. His remarks today….I will treasure in my heart forever. ⁦@RadInstitute⁩ View on Twitter Radcliffe Institute Retweeted Sherrilyn Ifill @Sifill_LDF 4 days ago Among the most lovely aspects of a day filled with dizzying moments was the chance to spend some time w/the incredible ⁦@maddow⁩.Having her deliver the testimonial for my receipt of the Radcliffe Medal was surreal,overwhelming, and such a high honor. @RadInstitute⁩ View on Twitter Radcliffe Institute Retweeted Sherrilyn Ifill @Sifill_LDF 4 days ago What a day! With the amazing, brilliant (soon to be Justice) Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, who attended today’s ⁦@RadInstitute⁩ Day program. View on Twitter Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College