Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School About the Graduate School Academic Events & Honors Events & Series Research Matters! Celebrating New Ideas and Discoveries Graduate School Skip to Navigation Research Matters! Celebrating New Ideas and Discoveries Research Matters, hosted by the Graduate School, is a live event, featuring short talks by graduate students and other scholars from the Brown community on “Why my research matters”. These brief talks showcase exceptional graduate student scholarship and celebrate their discoveries and ideas. Please join us for Research Matters on Thursday, April 21, from 4-6 pm. In person at Grant Recital Hall (105 Benevolent St; enter off of Hope St) or virtually via livestream. Brown community, alumni, faculty, staff, and all students are invited to attend. View the 2022 program 2022 Speakers Aarit Ahuja. PhD - Neuroscience Danille Blum. PhD - Chemistry Sarah Christensen. PhD - History Joe Colleyshaw. PhD - Slavic Studies Cooro Harris. PhD -Chemistry Joey Heffner. PhD -Psychology (CLPS) Kristin Kimble. PhD - EEPS Ethan Kyzivat. PhD – EEPS Jorge Ledesma. PhD - Epidemiology (Public Health) Alison Veintimilla. ScM - Biotechnology Donnell Williamson. PhD - Religious Studies Baoli Yang. PhD - Comparative Literature 2022 Nomination & Application Process Graduate students: Tell us why your research matters! We are looking for 5-minute talks on research projects by Brown University doctoral and master’s students. The talks are for a general audience. What’s involved: Nomination. Faculty, staff, and students are invited to nominate a graduate student with a compelling research story to tell. Graduate students may also self-nominate. Nominations for the Research Matters 2022 event are due by March 14, 2022. Application submission. Graduate students (no nomination required) are invited to apply with a submission of their research and talk description and short video of themselves presenting their scholarship by March 18, 2022. (Applicants are encouraged to read Speaker Tips.) Selection and Semi-finals. Semi-finalists will be invited to give a live talk (no more than 5 min.) at a scheduled session(s) in late-March. The selection panel will comprise faculty, graduate students and the Graduate School. Final selections. Those selected to speak at the live event are expected to attend a number of training, practice and mentoring sessions, including a rehearsal scheduled the day before the main event (Dates TBD). Research Matters 2022. The live event is on Thursday, April 21 from 4-6 pm at Grant Recital Hall. All talks will be video recorded and will be featured on the Graduate School website. Get inspired: Watch videos from previous Research Matters events: 2019 | 2017 | 2016 | 2014. Learn more about students’ experiences participating in Research Matters. Questions? Please contact: Vanessa Ryan, Co-Deputy Dean and Associate Dean of Student Development or direct general questions to [email protected]. Nominees will need to submit the following by March 18: A 350 word description of your talk and research project. A short video: Give us a sense of you speaking about your innovative idea and research project. This can be as short as one-minute, but no more than 3 minutes. You can use a smartphone or built-in webcam. Video quality is not the priority, as long as you are audible. We just want to get a brief sense of you as a speaker. Send the video to us one of two ways: --Google Drive: Share your file with us at [email protected], subject heading: “Research Matters Submission” --or, send us a link to a Youtube or Vimeo video. If you are unable to submit a short video, please email [email protected]. Home About the Graduate School People Mission & Facts Diversity and Inclusion News & Communications Academic Events & Honors Orientation Commencement Awards Events & Series Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Support Graduate Student Resources Maps & Directions Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items 2019 Speaker Videos 2017 Speaker Videos 2016 Speaker Videos 2014 Speaker Videos Tips for a Compelling Talk Nomination Form Hear what students say about the experience Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants