Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content World Languages Why Study Here? Why Study Here? WLL Works Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs World Languages Major International Film Studies Minor Arabic American Sign Language Chinese French German Ancient Greek Italian Japanese Latin Russian Spanish Resources Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Job Opportunities People People Meet the Faculty Research Research Faculty Research About About Contact Us Events News Alumni Connection Give ☰ SMU Department of World Languages and Literatures World Languages Undergraduate Programs Spanish Spanish The Department of World Languages and Literatures offers a wide range of beginning, intermediate, and advanced language and literature, conversation, and civilization courses, as well as opportunities for practical experience via internships and study abroad programs, and a major and minor in Spanish. SMU Spanish majors become global citizens able to connect personally and professionally with Spanish speakers, organizations, and companies all over the world. Why Study Spanish? 1. Spanish is the second-most spoken language in the world and the official language of 21 countries There are an estimated 500 million native speakers of Spanish worldwide. Home to 55 million speakers, the U.S. is second only to Mexico as the world's largest Spanish-speaking country. The study of Spanish allows students to acquire linguistic skills and cultural knowledge. 2. Studying Spanish offers many employment opportunities in the U.S. and abroad in 21 countries SMU Spanish majors have found work in schools, NGOs, and businesses in Spain and throughout Latin America, and use their linguistic skills in diverse fields, such as advertising, translation, law, education, and business. SMU Spanish majors have taught with Teach for America, in large urban school districts like Dallas ISD, at private schools, and even here at SMU! 3. A knowledge of Spanish is valuable in many graduate programs SMU Spanish majors master academic skills that help them succeed in graduate programs in disciplines like Medicine, Law, Public Policy, Art History, and Linguistics in universities that include UT Austin, Johns Hopkins, and Harvard. 4. Spanish skills can enable you to better serve your community Many SMU Spanish majors who work in schools, hospitals, NGOs, and other community-based sectors report using their cultural and linguistic knowledge on a daily basis. Spanish Majors Minor Program for Heritage Speakers of Spanish Courses Distinction Program Scholarships Study Abroad Spanish Club Extra Credit Faculty and Advising Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube