× Please sign in You need to log in to use the bookmarking feature. Sign In Harvard Business School Sign in to Baker Library Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Search Find Services Ask Browse Databases Collections & Archives Guides Exhibits Find Books, Articles & More More Places HOLLIS Catalog Harvard Library Working Knowledge Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program See all... Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Staff Visiting Researchers Ask Us Ask a Question Fast Answers Policies Staff Directory How Do I... Request HBS Cases Plan A Visit Manage My Data Get Teaching Support Baker Library Databases Ask Us Special Collections Fast Answers All Services Hours Plan Your Visit Exhibits Hollis Working Knowledge HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Campaign Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Search Search Search Alumni Lifelong Access to Baker Library Connect to and learn about research and library services available to HBS alumni. Complimentary Resources 24/7 Instant Resources: Access to exclusive librarian-curated electronic resources with eBaker. Learn about eBaker Assisted Search: Baker Library Research Specialists are on standby to answer your research questions. Ask a Research Specialist Premium Services Baker for Business (B4B): Baker Library’s premium research service that delivers custom reports on competitors, markets, deals, and more. Take Advantage of B4B Alumni Leverage Baker “Baker for Business is a trusted partner—they do high-value, secondary research for us so that we can focus on our core mission and make more informed decisions that fuel innovation and growth.” RICK BAUERLY, MBA CLASS OF 1986, FOUNDER AND CEO, GRANITE EQUITY PARTNERS Instant Resource for Independent Research Use eBaker to help you: Research companies, industries, and markets Track trends Find the latest management practices Go To eBaker Refresh Your Research Skills Buying a Business All you need to know to prepare buying a business. Download Guide Alumni Research Guide Find information to support business analysis and decision-making. Download Guide Venture Capital & Private Equity A great starting place for research on the VCPE industry. Download Guide Have more questions and need expert answers? Ask a Baker Research Specialist Visiting Baker? Bring Your Most Perplexing Business Questions To Us We are always delighted to see alumni on campus and in the library. Feel free to drop by, meet with a research librarian and take advantage of the wealth of resources available to onsite visitors. Plan a Visit Back to top Today's HoursAll Hours Connect with Baker Map & Contacts Know Before You Go Library Spaces Staff Directory About the Library B4B Product Catalog Books@Baker Annual Reports Harvard Business School Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6040 Email: infoservices@hbs.edu Maps and Directions Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes All Social Media Jobs Trademarks Site Map Harvard University Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 President & Fellows of Harvard College.