Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Educational Financing Applying for Financial Aid Applying for Aid | Current Undergraduate Students Applying for Aid | Current Undergraduate Students Applying for Aid | Current Undergraduate Students Continuing students must reapply for both institutional scholarships and federal financial aid every year. Applications must be submitted by the appropriate deadlines in order to receive priority consideration. Except in extraordinary circumstances, it is highly unlikely that institutional funding will be awarded to late applicants, therefore, careful attention to deadlines is recommended. For a list of commonly-used financial aid terms, please reference the Financial Aid Definitions page. For information about financial aid for continuing Postbac Premed Program students, visit Types of Financial Aid. Expand all Collapse all Institutional, Federal, and State Aid Deadlines Institutional Aid Deadline: April 1 To apply for institutional aid, students must submit the following items: School of General Studies Continuing Student Scholarship Application (the GS Continuing Student Scholarship Application can be found in the Student Success Portal on the Forms tab.) FAFSA (if applicable) U.S. citizens or eligible non-citizens (e.g., permanent residents) must complete the FAFSA. The FAFSA code for Columbia University is 002707. International Assessment Form (if applicable) (the International Assessment Form can be found in the Student Success Portal on the Forms tab.) Planned Enrollment Form In order to access the Planned Enrollment Form, you will need your CUID, which consists of the letter C followed by 9 numbers. Your CUID can be found on any page in SSOL (if you do not see it, change your viewing options). SEOG and Federal Work-Study Deadline: April 1 To apply for a Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG) and/or the Federal Work-Study Program, students must submit the following items: FAFSA U.S. citizens or eligible non-citizens (e.g., permanent residents) must complete the FAFSA. The FAFSA code for Columbia University is 002707. Planned Enrollment Form In order to access the Planned Enrollment Form, you will need your CUID, which consists of the letter C followed by 9 numbers. Your CUID can be found on any page in SSOL (if you do not see it, change your viewing options). Pell Grants and Federal Direct Loans To apply for a Pell Grant and/or a federal direct loan, students must submit the following items: FAFSA U.S. citizens or eligible non-citizens (e.g., permanent residents) must complete the FAFSA. The FAFSA code for Columbia University is 002707. Planned Enrollment Form In order to access the Planned Enrollment Form, you will need your CUID, which consists of the letter C followed by 9 numbers. Your CUID can be found on any page in SSOL (if you do not see it, change your viewing options). New York State Aid For information on the Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) and the Aid for Part-Time Study (APTS) Program, please see the Financial Aid Timeline. Expand all Collapse all Financial Aid Timeline Application Deadlines February GS Continuing Student Scholarship Application opens for the upcoming academic year April 1 To be considered for institutional aid: School of General Studies Continuing Student Scholarship Application (the GS Continuing Student Scholarship Application can be found in the Student Success Portal on the Forms tab.) Planned Enrollment Form Either the FAFSA (U.S. citizens and permanent residents) or the International Assessment Form (if applicable) (the International Assessment Form can be found in the Student Success Portal on the Forms tab.) To be considered for Federal SEOG and/or the Federal Work-Study Program: FAFSA Planned Enrollment Form June 30* To be considered for the Tuition Assistance Program (TAP), complete the online application if you did not apply while completing the FAFSA (only New York State residents attending full time are eligible). *Students are encouraged to to apply between January and June of 2022 to ensure funds will be available at the beginning of the fall semester Professional Judgment Federal regulations provide financial aid administrators with the authority to use their discretion or professional judgment on a case-by-case basis and with proper documentation to consider certain financial circumstances that impact a Title IV Applicant’s Expected Family Contribution (EFC) as determined by the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). For more information regarding this professional judgment review, please visit the Student Financial Services website. If you have special circumstances that you believe may qualify for such a review by our office, please schedule an appointment to discuss your applicable circumstances and to complete the necessary documentation. Please note: not all circumstances will be eligible for consideration, and not all appeals will result in additional financial assistance. Federal Verification Deadline April Students who have been awarded federal financial aid and have been selected for verification must complete the verification process no later than the last week of April of the current school year. Failure to do so will result in the cancellation of all federal financial aid for the academic year. Refer to the Documents section of the Online Financial Aid System to review which specific verification documents must be submitted. Contact Information GS Office of Educational Financing 408 Lewisohn Hall 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-5410 [email protected] Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Schedule an Appointment Payment and Account Inquiries Columbia University Student Financial Services 205 Kent Hall 1140 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-4400 http://askus.columbia.edu Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. (Cashiering windows in 210 Kent Hall close at 4 p.m. daily) Work-Study Program Work-Study Office 210 Kent Hall (212) 854-6232 [email protected] Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close