Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Parent & Family Services Get Involved Events & Services News Resources Support Us Visit UofM Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Resources Tiger Family Resource Hub Parent & Family Calendar I Want To In the Now Tiger Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future StudentsFreshmenTransferCommuterOut of StateSeniors Take Action Join the Parent & Family Association Check out the Tiger Family Resource Hub Check out In the Now: Monthly FAQs Contact Us: We are here to help! Follow Parent & Family Services InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutube Home Parent & Family Services Resources In the Now In the Now: February FAQs As the school year rolls on different situations and questions arise. As a result, our more frequently asked questions for each month will be posted below. If you do not see a topic covered, please review our Frequently Asked Questions page or feel free to e-mail us at parents@memphis.edu or at 901.678.2115. IMPORTANT DATES & DEADLINES SEND YOUR STUDENT A HUG FROM HOME Surprise & support your student with a Hug from Home! These are a great way to send love to your student. Proceeds go to support our Tiger Food Pantry for students in need. Hugs from Home are $15 and are a little happy for your student! In each bag, students receive candy (kisses, smarties, & lifesavers), a mini first-aid kit, hand sanitizer, and Tiger spirit items. On the order form, you can also add a personalized note to your student to show your support. ORDER A HUG FROM HOME FOR YOUR STUDENT > The last day to order a Hug from Home for your student will be February 10, 2022. Hugs from Home for the Spring 2022 Semester will be available for student pickup beginning February 14, 2022. Students and purchasers will receive an email with full details. Please contact us at parents@memphis.edu or 901.678.2115 if you have any questions. COUNSELING CENTER If your student is experiencing a crisis emergency during business hours (Monday to Friday 8:00-4:30) please call 901.468.3633 (remote number) or enter our virtual waiting room between 10-3, and after hours please call 901.678.HELP (4357) The Counseling Center at the UofM offers free counseling, wellness, and psychiatric services that can make a huge difference in your student's semester. They will do everything possible to take away that feeling of being overwhelmed and help your student get a firm handle on emotional, psychological, and/or interpersonal problems. It's okay to get help. All of the Counseling Center's services are confidential and most are available free of charge for students currently enrolled in at least 6 credit hours. They value and accept differences among people, including those of national origin, race, gender, gender expression, sexual orientation, ethnicity, functional ability, socio-economic status, age, and religious affiliation. They believe that valuing cultural diversity maximizes human growth and development and enhances the quality of life in our community and throughout the world. Learn more about what services are available for your student! Due to licensing laws and jurisdiction, we can only provide services to eligible students in the state of Tennessee. If you are out of state, please contact their office for a consult about how to be connected with services. PREPARING FOR SUMMER This may seem early, but now is the time for students to begin making plans for the summer. Many students may take the summer to do an internship to prepare them for their desired career. Internships are a great way for students to learn about a career and get valuable hands-on learning that will supplement their in-class learning. The Career Services Office offers great opportunities for students. Students can also meet with the Career Services office at any time. 1098-T TAX FORM 1098-T tax forms are now available from the University of Memphis for use in filing prior year taxes if the student opted to receive the form online. If they did not opt in, the form will be mailed by January 31 to a student's mailing address. If a student's scholarship, grants and/or fee waivers equaled and/or exceeded what they were charged for tuition for the year, the University of Memphis is no longer issuing 1098-T forms to individuals in this situation, as it not required by the Internal Revenue Service. The purpose of the 1098-T form is to identify those individuals who qualify for the education credit. Only those individuals that pay an out-of-pocket tuition related expense will be able to use the 1098-T. ENROLLMENT VERIFICATION Do you need verification that your student is enrolled for medical insurance, car insurance, or anything else? Students can request enrollment verification from the National Student Clearinghouse or from the Registrar’s office. For complete details on how to request enrollment verification, visit the Enrollment Verification website. STUDENT NEWSPAPER Do you want to know what is going on on-campus from a student point of view? Read the student newspaper, published Tuesday through Friday during the Fall and Spring semesters, at The Daily Helmsman website Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/1/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.