Skip to main content Baylor Business - Hankamer School of Business Baylor University About HSB Student Resources Giving Contact Undergraduate #BU26 Graduate MBA Programs Army-Baylor Programs Master of Business Analytics Master of Information Systems Master of Economics Master of Accountancy Master of Taxation Doctorate in Entrepreneurship Doctorate in Health Services Research Doctorate in Information Systems Areas of Study Accounting & Business Law Baylor Business Fellows Economics Entrepreneurship & Corporate Innovation Finance, Insurance & Real Estate Information Systems & Business Analytics Marketing Management Centers & Institutes Entrepreneurship Family Business Financial Markets Health Policy & Leadership International Business Nonprofit Leadership Professional Selling Real Estate Sales & Marketing Sports Strategy and Sales Technology Center Ethics Career Center Alumni About HSB Student Resources Giving Undergraduate Graduate Areas of Study Centers & Institutes Ethics Doctorate in Health Services Research Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation at night Watch Video Full Story Value Pillars inside building Watch Video Full Story Purpose The purpose of the PhD program in Health Services Research in the Hankamer School of Business is to train researchers in cutting edge data analysis skills. The individuals completing the program will primarily work in large health systems and provide detailed and rigorous analysis that will help managers make decisions to improve the quality and/or lower the cost of health services delivered. MORE... Distinctives The PhD Program is unique among many health services and health policy oriented doctoral programs as it is designed with the inclusion of a Master of Science (MS) in Economics degree to be completed prior to entering the dissertation phase of the program. This component of the PhD curriculum reflects the strong emphasis on economic theory and empirical techniques to guide students' research. The Hankamer School of Business is also home to other health care-focused academic endeavors, including the Robbins Institute for Health Policy and Leadership , which supports the schools’ healthcare MBA program. Additionally, Baylor is a proud member of the Business School Alliance for Health Management (BAHM), a consortium of business-school healthcare programs at 17 leading universities. BAHM journal: Health Management, Policy, and Innovation Is This the Program for You? Our program is highly selective, and most or all students receive considerable financial support. Admission with an offer of financial support typically requires a strong academic record — ideally with considerable training in Statistics, Mathematics, and Economics. If you have this background and a strong desire to acquire cutting-edge research skills and use them to improve health care delivery in the US and around the world, we encourage you to apply. Learn more about our admissions processes. More About Our Faculty: Program Faculty and Research Focus Affiliated Faculty and Research Focus Featured Publications Program News Contact Program Directors Dr. Michael Richards Michael_Richards@baylor.edu Dr. Scott Cunningham Scott_Cunningham@baylor.edu Search Site Map Why a Baylor PhD? About Us Admissions Program Faculty Affiliated Faculty Featured Publications Contact Us Stay Connected Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Podcast YouTube RSS Feed Why a Baylor PhD? About Us Admissions Program Faculty Affiliated Faculty Featured Publications Contact Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Podcast YouTube RSS Feed Baylor Business Links About HSB Advisory Board Baylor Business Brand Events Maps & Directions News Find Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Podcast RSS Feed Resources and Tools Canvas Digital Measures Directory Faculty/Staff Resources HSB Policies Student Resources Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University Waco, Texas 76798 1-800-BAYLOR-U