Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Transportation & Parking Services Menu Search TTU Transportation & Parking Services Appealing Citations The parking citations appeals process is intended to provide an objective process to review a citation. There must be substantial and valid evidence that the parking violation was not committed or that it occurred due to circumstances beyond the appellant's control. How to Appeal a Citation Log into your My Parking Account using your TTU eRaider username and password or, if you are a visitor, create a visitor account. (Computers are available at the TPS office for those without Internet access.) Click "Appeal Citation" under the Quick Links menu to the right. Follow the steps to complete an appeal. Include a detailed explanation for the appeal in the designated box. If you have supporting evidence (photos, receipts, maps, etc.), send the files to TPS via email at parking@ttu.edu or US mail by 8 p.m. the following business day. Appeals Process The parking citation appeals process involves three progressive levels of review of the citation and written appeal. First Level: Administrative Review The appeal and written citation are reviewed by a parking supervisor or manager. If an appeal is denied at this level, a request can be made to send the appeal to the second level. Second level appeals must be filed by the 10th calendar day from the date the first-level decision is rendered to request a second level appeal. Such requests must be made in writing and sent either by email to parking@ttu.edu or by US mail (postmarked no later than 10 calendar days from the date of the first level decision). Additional supporting information or documentation can be submitted for the second-level appeal at the time of the request. If a second-level appeal is not selected, the payment due date will be 10 calendar days from the date of the first-level decision or the citation accrues a $5 late fee. Second Level: University Appeals Committee Review The University Appeals Committee reviews the appeal and written citation. One faculty member, one staff member, and one student (none of which associated with TPS) comprise the committee. If an appeal is denied at this level, a third-level appeals process can be requested. Third-level appeals must be submitted by the 10th calendar day from the date the decision is rendered to request a third-level appeal. Such requests must be made in writing and sent either by email to parking@ttu.edu or by US mail (postmarked no later than 10 calendar days from the date of the second level decision). If a third-level appeal is not selected, the payment due date will be 10 calendar days from the date of the second-level decision or the citation accrues a $5 late fee. Third Level: In-person Hearing A panel of three law students serve as the hearing officers in the in-person hearing between the appellant and TPS. In addition to reviewing the written appeal, the hearing officers create an opportunity for the case to be made in person. Additional information to help reach a decision may be provided. The decision of the hearing officers is final, and no further appeals will be granted. If an appeal is denied at this level, payment is due 10 calendar days from the date of the decision or the citation will accrue a $5 late fee. Tips If you have supporting evidence, submit it. Do not include one of the following reasons when writing your detailed explanation: Lack of knowledge of the regulations Other vehicles were parked improperly Only parked illegally for a short period of time Stated failure of parking officer to ticket previously for similar offenses Late to class or appointment Inability to pay the amount of the fine No other place to park Additional Information Appeals must be submitted within 10 calendar days of citation issuance. Appellants receive email notice of receipt of a completed online appeal. If you do not receive an email acknowledgment, please contact TPS at parking@ttu.edu or (806) 742-PARK. Notice of the decision regarding your appeal will be sent by email or campus or US mail. Please allow one to three weeks for a decision regarding your appeal. The number of appeals filed increases near the end of the semester and may result in longer wait times. Transportation & Parking Services Like Transportation & Parking Services on FacebookLike Transportation & Parking Services on Facebook Follow Transportation & Parking Services on twitterFollow Transportation & Parking Services on twitter Address MS 43161, Administrative Support Center, Room 145, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX, 79409-3161 Phone 806.742.7275 Email parking@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 21, 2020 3:29 PM Transportation & Parking Services Information For Transportation & Parking Services Information For Back Student Parking Transportation & Parking Services Information For Student Parking Back Residence Hall Parking Commuter Parking Summer Parking Law Student Parking RAs, TAs, and GAs Student Athletes Park and Pay Motorcycle Parking ADA LEV (Green) Vehicle Parking Holiday and Break Parking Finals Parking and Busing Faculty & Staff Transportation & Parking Services Information For Faculty & Staff Back Employee Parking Options Departmental Portal Employee Dependent Parking Special Event Arrangements Supplemental Permissions Retired Faculty and Staff Departmental Vehicles Motorcycle Parking ADA LEV (Green) Vehicle Parking Holiday and Break Parking Visitors Transportation & Parking Services Information For Visitors Back Visitor Parking Map Game Day Parking Vendors and Contractors RV Spaces Transportation Transportation & Parking Services Information For Transportation Back Bicycling Busing Lime Raider Ride TECS Rental Fleet Fleet Management Construction Projects Texas Tech Commitment Resources Transportation & Parking Services Resources Back Transparency Transportation & Parking Services Resources Transparency Back Permit Costs Permit Cost History Citations and Enforcement Appeals Where Your Dollar Goes Price Comparisons Transportation Master Plan Campus Maps Rules and Regulations TPS Helps Transportation & Parking Services Resources TPS Helps Back Bike Clinic Bikes for Cites Expectant Mother Free Car Clinic Motorist Assistance Program Park Hunger Pop-Tarts for Tickets Short-Term Assistance Parking Toys for Tickets About TPS Transportation & Parking Services Resources About TPS Back TPS History Awards and Publications Recommend an Employee Event Parking Transportation & Parking Services Event Parking Back Submit Event View Events Game Day Parking Contact TPS My Parking Transportation & Parking Services My Parking Back My Parking Account Pay My Citation Pay My Boot Or Tow Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index