Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Commencement Celebrating the Class of 2022! Watch the Convocation and Commencement Events Live from Radcliffe Yard May 25, 2022 | HGSE Convocation | 3:30 - 5 p.m. May 26, 2022 | HGSE Presentation of Diplomas and Certificates | 1- 3:30 p.m. Commencement Week includes Harvard-wide activities and HGSE ceremonies. HGSE's Convocation will feature an address by 2021-22 National Teacher of the Year Juliana Urtubey. Commencement Day begins with Harvard’s Morning Exercises, followed by HGSE’s Diploma Awarding Ceremony. For a detailed schedule of events, visit the Commencement site at the Office of Student Affairs. You can also visit Harvard's central Commencement site. Celebrating the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Harvard’s Classes of 2020 and 2021 could not gather on campus for traditional Commencement ceremonies. We’re pleased that we can now come together in person to mark the achievements of HGSE’s Classes of 2020 and 2021. Saturday, May 28, 2022 at 10 a.m. Sunday, May 29, 2022 at 8 a.m. The Harvard Graduate School of Education Honors the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Watch the Live Ceremony Harvard University’s Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Watch the Live Commencement Event Details to follow. To find evolving information and an FAQ, visit HGSE's 2020-2021 Commencement Celebration site. For more information, visit Harvard University's Commencement site. Widen Layout: wide Powered by Curator.io Widen Layout: wide Commencement Stories Celbrating Our First Century and Launching Our Next By News editor 06/01/2022 11:32 AM EDT The prepared remarks of Dean Bridget Long for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Celebration. The Impact of Immigration on Families By Lory Hough 06/01/2022 10:35 AM EDT In her research, doctoral marshal Sarah Rendón García, Ed.M.'12, Ph.D.'21, explores how the children of immigrants learn about their families' status in the U.S. Exploring the Effects of Desegregation By Emily Boudreau 06/01/2022 9:13 AM EDT With his research, doctoral marshal Mark Chin, Ph.D.'22, aims to develop more equitable schools and policies. View More Commencement Stories Widen Layout: wide Looking for information about HGSE Homecoming? Visit gse.harvard.edu/homecomings. Widen Layout: standard Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice