Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Facilities Management University Event and Conference Services Show/Hide Services Event Management Virtual Events For Brown Departments For Other Organizations & Individuals Event Support Fees & Labor Rates Related Services Events Toolkit Virtual Events Planning Guide Step by Step Planning Guide Facilities Fees & Labor Rates Visiting Guest and Dignitaries Campus Event Venues Campus Partners Commencement Departmental Ceremonies Events Policies Postering and Publicity About Us Staff See What We Do Virtual Event Gallery Volunteer with us Contact Us Presidential Host Program Planon Promoting Your Event Promoting Your Event Now that you've worked hard to plan your event, ensure people know about it. Begin by using the many free ways Brown has to promote your event. Postering & Publicity Facilities Management generally removes all posters each week on Monday or Tuesday. If it is not done by 3 p.m. on Tuesday, removal will wait until the following week. Note that there is daily removal for those posted in inappropriate locations (on trees, doors, etc.). External Posting Locations The following are outdoor postering locations on campus: The Arch at the Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center (Please, leave posters at the Information and Welcome Center as outlined in the postering and publicity regulations.) Corner of Brown and George Street Wayland Arch Upper Wriston by Wayland Arch Lower Wriston Across from the Refectory Upper and Lower Keeney Quad New Pembroke #4 Grad Center, Thayer Street Entrance Postering Inside Buildings Posters placed inside buildings may only be placed in bulletin boards that have safety glass. Any posters, signs, or paper on corridor walls, doors, stairwells or other public areas are subject to removal without notice. Please check with offices for how to post notices inside each building. For the Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center and Page-Robinson Hall, please leave copies of your posters at the Information and Welcome Center. Sponsors are accountable for damages due to taping or stapling on interior or exterior doors. Information Tables Several locations exist for student organizations to be physically present to sell tickets, distribute information, or advertise programs. Paige-Robinson Hall/Mailroom Lobby & Lower Lobby of the Campus Center Student groups may reserve table spaces in the lobby of the University mailroom (Page-Robinson Hall building) and, for special events, may set up information tables in the lower lobby of the Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center. To reserve space, please e-mail or stop by the SAO. Groups receive half of a six foot table and may reserve a space 1 week at a time. PLEASE NOTE: The Page-Robinson Hall and Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center lobbies are public spaces and, in response to a theft attempt in March 2008, additional protocols have been developed for those selling items. Sharpe Refectory Contact Dining to check about having a table near the entrance to the Refectory. Outdoors/Main Green In addition to signing up for mailroom tables, there are three table spots by the Bear statue in front of the Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center. To sign up, stop by or e-mail the SAO. In addition, on a limited basis, displays, exhibits, and informational programs may also be held on one of the University's many green spaces; such requests should submit an on-line form. Table Slips Table slips (small slips of paper distributed onto tables in dining halls) are arguably one of the best ways to reach students. Contact Dining Services to learn more. Postering is also an option for promoting your event on-campus. When postering, it is important to remember Brown's Postering and Publicity Guidelines. Other Publicity Options On-Campus and Local Media Advertising Below is some information on how to advertise in campus and local media. Brown Daily Herald (BDH) To place an ad in the BDH, call 351-3372 between 9 am and 5 pm, Monday through Friday. The business staff can discuss ad rates with you. Take Advantage of FREE Promotional Opportunities! University Event Calendar (Note: posting on the Event Calendar is required in order to take advantage of the Promotional Screens or [email protected]) Promotional Screens [email protected] (replaced Morning Mail) Featured Events at Brown (Distributed every Monday to subscribers, including local and regional editors and reporters, Featured Events is a great way to publicize your on-campus happenings. See link for subscription information and submission guidelines). Promotional Slides Post Your Event on BearSync (student groups only) The Graduate Student Council maintains a set of listservs which can facilitate promoting your event to the graduate community. Publicity Regulations (Newly Revised 10/16/2015) Student Groups and departments have 100% responsibly for advertising or marketing their events. If you are partnering with outside organizations, please be clear that outside groups must receive expressed written permission from Brown in order to advertise any event on Brown's campus. These policies refer to all publicity, including banners, posters, table slips, flyers, websites, chalking, social networking websites and other promotional materials for events. Student groups who have questions about these policies should contact the Student Activities Office (2nd Floor, Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center, 863-2341). Community Standards Groups and individuals are encouraged to consider the impact their promotional materials may have on the quality of the Brown environment for others. Sponsor contact information is required on all promotional materials to provide a means for dialogue in the event that members of the community wish to express any concerns or share their reactions. Part of the responsibility that comes with disseminating promotional materials is the willingness to dialogue with individuals who may have a different perspective. For additional information, please reference Brown's Standards of Student Conduct, particularly Offense XIV. Event Support Request Event Management Inquiry Postering and Publicity Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of University Event & Conference Services Brown University 295 Lloyd Ave., Box 1941 Providence, RI 02912 Conferences & Event Support: Phone: (401) 863-3100 Fax: (401) 863-1943 Office Hours: 8:30AM-5:00PM FM Home Maps Feedback Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat