Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Center for Student Wellness Menu Main Nav Center for Student Wellness Meet with a wellness coach Back Back Close About Overview Staff Campus Health Resources 10th Anniversary Celebration Programs & Services Overview Wellness Coaching The Institute of Wellness Coaching Nutrition Alcohol & Drug Recovery & Sobriety Support Parent/Guardian Resources Internship Opportunities Alcohol and Drug Screening BConnected Retreat Related Links Health Talks Healthy RA Journey to Wellness Overview Mental Health Stress Time Resilience Nutrition Exercise Sleep Alcohol Relationships Spirituality Community Social Life Related Links Feel Better Now and Online Learning Tips Events Meet with a wellness coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Wellness Coaching Home Programs & Services Wellness Coaching Meet with a Peer Wellness Coach! Why sign up for Wellness Coaching? Students can receive individual wellness coaching through our Institute for Wellness Coaching to develop personal goals and strategies to improve health behaviors. We believe health and wellness is the foundation for everything we do and it’s important to take time to invest in it during your time at BC. Wellness Coaching is an evidence-based conversation structured around the changes that you want to make in your life when you are ready to make them – you are empowered through this process to identify the life you want to be living and design actionable goals and strategies to get you there. Trained Peer Wellness Coaches apply strategies and practical skills as they partner with you to work through lifestyle challenges and to help you reach a quality of life that is meaningful, self-sustaining, healthy, and value-driven. Interested in learning more about your general health, nutrition, or around alcohol use? Take a screening below. BeWell Screening for General Health NourishWell Screening for Nutrition ChooseWell Screening for Alcohol Use How to sign up for Wellness Coaching Be Well Schedule a Wellness Coaching Session Learn how to take care of your mind, body, and soul by improving your sleep, nutrition, exercise, stress levels, time, prioritizing your mental health, reflecting on your substance use, developing healthy relationships, and engaging with your faith community. If you are a graduate student please make sure to select a calendar appointment labeled, "Graduate Be-Well 1:1." If you don’t see an opening that works for you, please email bwell@bc.edu. Wellness Coaching Q & A Print What is Wellness Coaching What is Wellness Coaching? Trained Student Wellness Coaches will meet with you in- person or virtually to facilitate a one-on-one coaching conversation. The initial wellness coaching session is an hour and follow-up sessions are encouraged and can be scheduled as needed. How does it work? How does it work? Wellness Coaches take a holistic approach to personal wellness and work with you through a collaborative and non-judgemental partnership to: Explore how dimensions of well-being connect to your strengths, values, and motivations Help students to set and achieve wellness goals and learn coping skills to thrive personally and academically And help to connect you to campus resources What topics are covered? What topics are covered? What do the Wellness Coaching topics include? A peer Wellness Coach provides support, tips, resources, and accountability to help you set and reach your goals around any of our 12 areas of health focused on caring for your mind, body, and soul. Topics include: Building a healthy relationship with food and body image Exploring fulfilling ways to exercise and move Improving your sleep Managing your stress, time, and academics Prioritizing your mental health Reflecting on your substance use Developing meaningful relationships Cultivating a satisfying social life Engaging with your faith and spirituality Finding belonging in your community How can I sign up? Sign up for an individual wellness coach session by picking a slot in this calendar. Meet Our Wellness Coaches Alison McDonald, '22 Lead Wellness Coach Colin Droney, '23 Lead Wellness Coach Anna Wen, '22 Lead Wellness Coach Erik Banda, '22 Lead Wellness Coach Erin McDonald, '23 Lead Wellness Coach Orobosa Enabulele, '22 Lead Wellness Coach Caitlin Colangelo, '22 Lead Wellness Coach Jaime Mammolenti, '22 Lead Wellness Coach Caroline Thompson, '24 Wellness Coach Erica Schlichting, '23 Wellness Coach Ainsley Kohler, '23 Wellness Coach Mary Fitton, '22 Wellness Coach Mary Fitton, '22 Wellness Coach Aroub Yousuf, '22 Wellness Coach Isabella Secchiaroli, '23 Wellness Coach Clare Bumpus, '22 Wellness Coach Bruce Salisbury, '24 Wellness Coach Muskan Merani, '23 Wellness Coach Kaira Wiltshire, '24 Wellness Coach Rahul Atluri, '22 Wellness Coach Letacianna Stoudmire, '24 Wellness Coach Brynn Dougherty, '23 Wellness Coach Mila Conteras-Godfrey, '24 Wellness Coach Tyler DiFiore, '23 Wellness Coach Tony Lewis, '23 Wellness Coach Jess Llewellyn, '24 Wellness Coach Alexa Spitz, '22 Wellness Coach Andrew Naguib, '23 Wellness Coach Become a Wellness Coach The Office of Health Promotion is looking for highly motivated students with a passion for health and health leadership. This is an opportunity for our students to pursue their passion for health, support and empower their peers to make healthy decisions, grow as individuals, gain career and leadership skills, and serve the Boston College community. Think you'd be a good fit? Learn more Motivational Interviewing Workshop Request a workshop on Motivational Interviewing: A Positive Communication Technique for Behavior Change. Participants will understand the basics of this collaborative, student-centered approach and will be able to begin practicing their new skills right away. Request a Workshop Back To Top Back To Top Center for Student Wellness Gasson Hall, Suite 025 617-552-9900 bwell@bc.edu About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College