Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator About ORA Associate Vice President for Research Administration Clinical Research Contact Us Export Control Compliance Office Locations Post-Award Pre-Award Recharge/Service Centers Strategic Initiatives Who is my ORA Contact Person Forms and Rates All ORA Forms Forms by Category F&A Rates Fringe Benefit Rates Institutional Information Compliance Effort Reporting Export Control Compliance Financial Compliance University Research Foreign Influence Guidance Regulatory & Compliance Services Responses to COVID-19 Policies All ORA Policies Award Administration Clinical Research Export Control Compliance F&A Distribution Guidelines Proposal Preparation Recharge Center Policy Research Policies at UM Uniform Guidance Systems IBISResearch Clinical Research (Velos) Conflict of Interest (UDisclose) Effort Reporting (ECC) Greenphire ClinCard Human Subjects (eProst/IRB7) Research Reporting (RRS) Workday Quick Links Agency Links All About Workday Announcements Education and Training Research Road Map ORA Intranet Site ORA Mailboxes Reports and Data Share a Comment Uask FAQs About ORA Forms and Rates Compliance Policies Systems Quick Links Search All ORA Forms Pre-Award Forms Post-Award Forms Clinical Research Forms Research Information Systems Forms Export Control Compliance Forms About ORA Associate Vice President for Research Administration Clinical Research Contact Us Export Control Compliance Office Locations Post-Award Pre-Award Recharge/Service Centers Strategic Initiatives Who is my ORA Contact Person Forms and Rates All ORA Forms Forms by Category F&A Rates Fringe Benefit Rates Institutional Information Compliance Effort Reporting Export Control Compliance Financial Compliance University Research Foreign Influence Guidance Regulatory & Compliance Services Responses to COVID-19 Policies All ORA Policies Award Administration Clinical Research Export Control Compliance F&A Distribution Guidelines Proposal Preparation Recharge Center Policy Research Policies at UM Uniform Guidance Systems IBISResearch Clinical Research (Velos) Conflict of Interest (UDisclose) Effort Reporting (ECC) Greenphire ClinCard Human Subjects (eProst/IRB7) Research Reporting (RRS) Workday Quick Links Agency Links All About Workday Announcements Education and Training Research Road Map ORA Intranet Site ORA Mailboxes Reports and Data Share a Comment Uask FAQs OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator All ORA Forms Pre-Award Forms Post-Award Forms Clinical Research Forms Research Information Systems Forms Export Control Compliance Forms About ORA Forms and Rates Compliance Policies Systems Quick Links Home Forms and Rates Forms by Category All ORA Forms AAA All ORA Forms All ORA Forms Pre-Award Forms Post-Award Forms Clinical Research Forms Research Information Systems Forms Export Control Compliance Forms CCS-Restricted Party Screening Form EXPORT-F-009a Cost Sharing-Matching Funds Statement Form Form Description Date Revised Advance Account In the absence of an award letter, an account may be opened or extended under guarantee. 07-26-17 Close Out Form Please fill out the Close Out Form when your acccount has ended. 09-19-16 Cost Sharing-Matching Funds Statement Form This form is to be used when requesting a separate sponsored account to record and document cost sharing/matching funds. 05-17-19 Costing Allocation Template The Costing Allocation Template was created to assist you with calculating salary caps for grants. Please click on instructions to learn how to use the template. 04-12-19 DS-2019 Applicant Review Form (Export-F-006) ORA’s Export Control Compliance office document number: EXPORT-F-006 is required for all foreign persons being sponsored under a DS-2019 application. 03-04-19 End-User Disclosure (EXPORT-F-003) The purpose of this form is to identify individuals who are assigned to projects that contain confidential, proprietary, export controlled, or other sensitive items. This form will also be used to identify individuals, primarily foreign persons, who will be using export controlled technology. 03-04-19 Export Classification Disclosure Form – EXPORT-F-002 This form should be filled out by the vendor/manufacturer of the item(s) being procured, please supply the export classification as it pertains to the appropriate regulation (EAR/ITAR) of each item on the invoice. 03-04-19 Export Control Recordkeeping Form - EXPORT-F-010 One of the greatest risks of “inadvertent violations of export laws and regulations” occurs during informal technical exchanges with Foreign Persons. UM’s Export Control Recordkeeping Form will serve to “heighten UM employees’” awareness that such communications and meetings are risk areas for potential export violations. 04-21-17 Export Control Program Recordkeeping Form - EXPORT-F-011 The Export Control Program Recordkeeping Form will be utilized to capture 6-months program activities and will serve to "heighten UM employees awareness" for potential export violations. 07-26-18 F&A Waiver/Cost Share Complete this form and include it in your funding proposal when initiating an Ancillary Review in IBISResearch to request waiver or reduction of (F&A) Costs or if the project involves cost sharing. FDP Subrecipient Pilot Form The FDP Subrecipient Pilot Form must be used if the subrecipient is listed in the FDP Pilot on the FDP Expanded Clearinghouse page. 04-05-16 General Purpose Request Form Please use this form to justify the general purpose costs that were not anticipated on a proposal. General purpose costs are not allowable except for special circumstances. 03-01-13 I-129 Export Control Attestation Form – EXPORT-F-001 (PDF) The University of Miami (UM) requires all departments wishing to sponsor a foreign national on one of the four visa types noted to complete this form. This form is required for both new and renewal applications. 03-04-19 Jackson Work Order Request Form Complete this form and attach supporting documentation for each request. Once the information is received at mra@med.miami.edu, the creation of subaward/work order can begin. 08-01-17 License Exception BAG Form – EXPORT-F-008 Please use this form for the temporary export of personally owned devices. 01-09-18 License Exception TMP Form – EXPORT-F-005 Please use this form for the temporary export of tools of trade. 03-04-19 Memorandum of Understanding A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) is an agreement between two or more parties planning to create a cooperative research and/or educational partnership. NIH eRA Commons Account Request Coral Gables Campus Medical Campus RSMAS Campus Non Availability of Equipment The Non Availability of Equipment form is used for equipment purchases funded by federal or state grants, contracts or agreements. 04-11-18 NSF FastLane Access Request NSF has a new account management functionality. To request a new National Science Foundation (NSF) account, Principal Investigators need to request access through Research.gov. Users with existing NSF accounts can access the NSF ID Lookup page for their NSF ID. Forgotten passwords for established NSF accounts may be retrieved here. 07-01-18 Outbound Subaward Jackson Work Order Request Form Complete this form and attach supporting documentation for each request. Once the information is received at mra@med.miami.edu, the creation of subaward/work order can begin. 02-07-18 PAA Worksheets PAA Hourly Instructions PAA Hourly Instructions PAA Hourly FY2021- Forward PAA Monthly Split Month PAA Monthly No Split Month Instructions PAA Monthly Research Reporting System Access Request Please fill out this form to obtain access to the Research Reporting System (RRS). Restricted Party Screening Form EXPORT-F-009 This form is to be used for persons and entities who are not captured under other UM processes, such as DS-2019, I-129, and vendor applications. 07-07-16 CCS-Restricted Party Screening Form EXPORT-F-009a This form is to be used for the Institute for Data Science and Computing ONLY 05-13-19 Retroactive Transfer Non-Salary Charges (FORM FA-11) This form is used for all non-personnel transfers to or from a sponsored account. Please complete and attach a Batch Control Form to the completed FA-11. 03-01-16 Subrecipient Commitment Form The Subrecipient Commitment Form must be submitted with grant applications that include subawardees/subcontractors to the Office of Research Administration (ORA). ORA will not issue subawards/subcontracts without the completed Subrecipient Commitment Form. 05-07-19 Technology Control Plan Form (TCP)– EXPORT-F-004 The purpose of a Technology Control Plan (TCP) is to outline the characteristics of the project and to define the controls necessary to ensure that the transfer of identified items to visitors, employees, and students during the performance of research activities or other University endeavors occurs in an authorized and approved manner. 11-09-16 Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA) Import Certification Form 03-04-19 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Research Administration 1320 S. Dixie Hwy, Suite 650 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3871 305-284-3871 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices