COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert Student and Employee COVID-19 Testing Current WSU students, faculty and staff can now walk in for a free COVID-19 test at Student Health Services. If you have pre registered through MDL you can enter through the Wesley clinic door on the east side of the building. For registration information visit our COVID-19 testing page. Student COVID-19 self-observation questionnaire Section Menu COVID-19 Response Home University Announcements Current Students Guide Future Shockers Guide WSU Employees and Supervisors Guide Instructors FAQ Index of FAQ Questions COVID-19 Vaccination Information COVID-19 Research Student Health COVID-19 Page COVID-19 Self-Observation questionnaires COVID-19 Dashboard Timeline of WSU's COVID response The purpose of the questionnaire is for you to self-observe your daily health prior to coming to campus. It was developed with criteria from the CDC. Take your temperature every day before coming to campus and write it down. If your temperature is greater than 100 degrees or if you answer YES to any of the following questions, please stay home and contact Student Health Services (316-978-4792) or your health care provider. Please answer the following questions: Have you been tested for the coronavirus because you are having illness symptom and are still awaiting results? If yes, stay home until results are received. Have you tested POSITIVE for the coronavirus? If yes, isolate from other at home for 10 days from when symptoms started or, if asymptomatic, from when you tested. You may need to stay home more than 10 days if symptoms are not improving or worsen. Contact Student Health or your physician for guidance. Have you had prolonged close contact with someone who tested positive for the coronavirus? If yes, quarantine according to SCHD modified quarantine guidance. Residents of campus housing will need to complete a 14-day quarantine because of the higher risk of transmission in a residence hall environment. Individuals who are fully vaccinated or have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 6 months AND are asymptomatic are not required to quarantine. Fully vaccinated is defined as ≥2 weeks following receipt of the second dose in a 2-dose series, or ≥2 weeks following receipt of one dose of a single-dose vaccine. Testing is recommended if you develop symptoms, even if you had the COVID-19 vaccine or tested positive in the past Has a member of your household been tested for the coronavirus (awaiting results)? If yes, stay home until results are received. Has a member of your household been asked by a medical professional to isolate for potential coronavirus? If yes, separate from each other in the home as much as possible. You will need to wait for COVID-19 test results or, if testing not done but individuals is advised they have COVID-19, follow guidance in item #3. Contact Student Health or your physician with any questions. Have you recently traveled or plan to travel soon? Please keep check the Kansas state public health Travel & Exposure Related Isolation/Quarantine information. Are you experiencing or have you experienced any of the following symptoms? (If you answer yes to at least one of these questions, please stay home and call your healthcare provider.) Cough (not related to allergies) Shortness of breath Difficulty breathing Fever or Chills Fatigue Repeated shaking with chills Muscle pain New loss of taste or smell Sore throat or headache Congestion or runny nose Diarrhea Nausea or vomiting Once you begin your day on campus, continue to observe yourself for any changes such as fever, coughing and/or difficulty breathing. What to do if your condition changes while at work or at home If you feel feverish or develop a cough or have difficulty breathing during the self-observation period, you should: Take your temperature and write it down. Self-isolate (6-feet distance between you and others) Seek advice by telephone from your healthcare provider or Student Health Services. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©