More information will be posted here when it becomes available. Emergency215-573-3333 A-Z Directories Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Open menu Departments About Our Division Office of the Vice President Finance & Administration Fire & Emergency Services Penn Police Department PennComm & Emergency Communications Security Services Security Technology Special Services Emergency Preparedness PennReady UPennAlert Emergency Notification System Emergency Procedures Safety Initiatives HELP Line: 215-898-HELP Penn Guardian 24/7 Walking Escort Service DPS “Top 10 List” Penn Alternative Response Unit (AR-1) Operation Theft Awareness Self-Defense Courses Bicycle, Motor Vehicle, and Pedestrian Safety Information Clery Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Clery Crime Log CSA Crime Statistics Reporting Data Form Media Videos News and Events Photos Contact General Contact Information DPS Administration Directory Send Us Feedback Commend a Member of DPS Report a Crime Police Complaint Form Silent Witness Form Student Project Request Form Presentation Request Form Request a Special Property Check Menu Media Clery Contact Privacy Policy A-Z Directories Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail DPS “Top 10 List” The Division of Public Safety encourages you to learn about all of the safety services available to you. Please take a moment to review the ten things you need to know, including free safety services that the Division of Public Safety offers the community. 1. Contact Information Emergencies: Call (215) 573-3333 or dial 511 from any campus phone. Please program this number into your cell phone speed dial as “Penn Pub Safety.” Use this number for all medical and emergency-related calls, including the reporting of suspicious behavior, or to reach Penn Police & Public Safety personnel. General information: Call (215) 898-7297 2. Safety and Security Services: Walking Escort Service: (215) 898-WALK (9255). Available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, between 43rd & 30th Streets and Market Street to Baltimore Avenue. Escorts are also available from 10 a.m. until 3 a.m. between 50th & 30th Streets and Spring Garden Street to Woodland Avenue via the University’s partnership with the University District Ambassador Program. How to Request a Walking Escort: Ask any Public Safety Officer on patrol or inside a building Call 215-898-WALK (9255) or 511 (from campus phone) Use one of the many building and blue-light ephones located on and off Penn’s Campus 3. Penn Transit Ride Service Penn Transit Services: (215) 898-RIDE (7433) Business Services’ Penn Ride Service: Monday-Sunday, 6 p.m.-3 a.m.; Limited on-call service, 3 a.m.-7 a.m. Visit www.upenn.edu/transportation. 4. UPennAlert Emergency Notification System The UPennAlert Emergency Notification System enables fast and efficient dissemination of critical information to members of the University community during a major emergency via text messaging, e-mail, digital displays and the Penn Siren Outdoor System (Penn SOS). If you have not done so already, please take a few minutes now to register or update your contact information. All information is secure and confidential. Students: Register at Penn InTouch via Penn Portal Faculty/Staff: Register at Penn Directories Learn More about UPennAlert 5. Blue Light Phones: If you observe a potential safety hazard, need a walking escort, or require Penn Police assistance, contact the Division of Public Safety from one of more than over 300 blue-light phones on campus and in the surrounding community. Just pick up the receiver or press the button. 6. PennGuardian: This service allows PennComm, the DPS emergency communications center, to identify your GPS coordinates when you call from a cell phone that you have registered with Penn Guardian. Penn Guardian is available to you as a member of the Penn community. To activate this service, you must sign up and register your cell phone number. Once your cell phone number has been registered, a dispatcher will be able to view the profile information that you have entered when you call the DPS emergency number – 215-573-3333. Learn More About PennGuardian Register for PennGuardian 7. Property Registration: Penn Students and Faculty/Staff can register their bicycles, electronic equipment and other valuable property, online with the University of Pennsylvania Police Department. Students can also purchase a U-Lock through their SFS account. Students: Access Campus Express Online via CampusExpress Faculty/Staff: Access U@Penn via www.upenn.edu/u@penn 8. Safety Presentations and Materials: Members of the Division of Public Safety will provide safety information including brochures, videos, and presentations upon request. To request materials or arrange for a presentation, please contact our Special Services Department at (215) 898-4481 or email sdever[at]publicsafety.upenn.edu. 9. Preventing Theft on Campus: Unattended theft is the number one crime here at Penn. The majority of all theft reported to the Penn Police occurs because items are left unattended or are improperly secured. All items should be taken with you at all times. U-Locks, NOT cable locks, should be used on bikes. You should always lock your doors, even if leaving for a few minutes. Always report suspicious activity by contacting the Division of Public Safety at 215-573-3333 or 511 from a campus phone. 10. Safety Practices: The Division of Public Safety asks that all members engage the idea that “Safety and Security is a Shared Responsibility.” Please remember to take your personal property with you at all times, don’t leave doors unlocked and report suspicious behavior. Do not display your smartphone (iPhone, Android, etc.) when walking about. Keep it in your bag or pocket. Avoid using earphones when walking to ensure that you stay alert and aware of your surroundings. Stay in well-lit areas. Walk mid-point between curbs and buildings, away from alleys, entries, and bushes. Stay near people. Avoid short cuts through parks, vacant lots, and other low-occupancy places. Carry only necessary credit cards and money. Avoid using outdoor ATMs (automated teller machines). Instead, look for banks that require entry into a lobby to use their ATM. If you must carry a purse or handbag, keep it close to your body. This will minimize the chances of theft. If your purse is taken, don’t fight. Turn it over and immediately call 911. Walk with someone whenever possible. Participate in buddy systems. Do not stop to give directions or other information to strangers. Never hitchhike. If you believe are being followed, call 911. Be alert & confident – making good eye contact may discourage the follower. Cross the street, change directions, or vary your pace. If someone follows you in a car, record the license number and call 911 immediately. Have your key out and ready before you reach your car or door. Trust your instincts and use common sense. Navigate This Section Safety Initiatives Bicycle, Motor Vehicle, and Pedestrian Safety Information CampusExpress Property Registration DPS “Top 10 List” HELP Line: 215-898-HELP Motorist Safety Operation Theft Awareness College House & On Campus Off Campus Residential Preventing Bicycle Theft Protecting Personal Items Preventing Fraud & ID Theft Penn Guardian Frequently Asked Questions GPS Tracking Personal Profile Protecting Your Privacy Registering for Penn Guardian Self-Defense Courses Walk / Ride / Drive SMART Emergencies 215.573.3333 General Information 215.898.7297 Campus Phones 511 4040 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 Latest Tweets The daily crime log for the Penn Patrol Zone is always available on our website: ow.ly/9uqm50wydj0 and for re… twitter.com/i/web/status/15319… About 6 hours ago Quicklinks Emergency Preparedness 24/7 Walking Escort Theft Awareness RAD Self Defense Courses Penn Guardian UPennAlert Explore Departments Emergency Preparedness University of Pennsylvania Police Department (UPPD) Information and Statistics Safety Initiatives Report Accessibility Issues & Get Help Media Clery Contact Privacy Policy Connect with DPS Receive DPS Traffic Advisories Learn About Penn Guardian © 2016 The University of Pennsylvania. 4040 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 215.898.7297 | Contact Us Rotate Your Phone to Portrait Mode Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset