Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University GSAS Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded I am a... Degree Programs Student Guide Graduate Life Our Community Blog Prospective Student Current Student Faculty & Staff Alumna / Alumnus Admissions MA Programs PhD Programs Coronavirus Information for GSAS Students Financing Your Education New Student Guide Policy Handbook Research Teaching The Dissertation Career Development Convocation Diversity and Inclusion GSAS Writing Studio Graduate Student Center Student Life & Well-Being Alumni Network Dean’s Welcome GSAS at a Glance History Publications Staff Contact Us GSAS You are here: Home I am a... Prospective Students Prospective Students Find below a list of pages frequently viewed by prospective GSAS students. Please also refer to the Degree Programs section. Key Contacts Office of Admissions 107 Low Library, MC 4303 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 [email protected] (212) 854-6729 Before contacting the GSAS Office of Admissions, please first read our Frequently Asked Questions page. Quick Links Admissions View an overview of the admissions process and resources for prospective students. GSAS Application The 2022 application is now open. Please click here to apply. Requirements & Resources for International Applicants Learn about the tax rules that apply to international graduate students. Visiting Columbia Visitors interested in graduate study should contact the department directly for more information about the program and departmental tours. MA Programs GSAS administers forty-three master's programs. PhD Programs GSAS administers thirty PhD programs and confers the degrees for thirty-two others. Dual Degree & Certificate Programs The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences offers a number of dual-degree programs in partnership with other schools at Columbia or outside institutions. GSAS at a Glance Learn about the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences through these facts and figures. Diversity At GSAS, diversity is an academic value, one that is marker of institutional excellence as well as a benchmark of innovation for our research, programming, and student environment. Financing Your Education Learn about financial aid resources, fellowship opportunities, and more. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences109 Low Memorial Library, MC 4306, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-8903 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close