Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Faculty Senate Faculty Senate Take a Look Back Archives Take a Look Back Minutes What's Ahead Faculty Senate Agenda Faculty Senate Meeting Via Zoom Join Meeting News ♦ Revisions have recently been made to the 2021 Clemson University Faculty Manual. They are available below to view: Faculty Manual Change 202201: Amendment of the Global Engagement Committee in the Faculty Manual Faculty Manual Change 202202: Removal of the Summer Reading Advisory Committee from the Faculty Manual Faculty Manual Change 202203: Revision of the University Assessment Committee The approved changes for this year are listed at the beginning of the Faculty Manual in a summary of changes. Any future modifications to the Faculty Manual will be distributed to all faculty. Departmental and college bylaws, as well as departmental TPR guidelines, must be consistent with the Faculty Manual. To assist with consistency, we created document review checklists. These checklists are available on the Faculty Senate website. Mary Beth Kurz, Faculty Manual Consultant, is available to assist with review and revisions of bylaws and TPR guidelines. While we carefully reviewed the Faculty Manual for errors, we acknowledge that even the most meticulously edited work will not be free from mistakes. We ask for your patience; you can send any corrections or suggestions for the Faculty Manual to the Faculty Senate or the Faculty Manual Consultant. If you have any questions, please contact us: Kristine Vernon (kvernon@clemson.edu); Mary Beth Kurz (mkurz@clemson.edu); and Faculty Senate (senate@clemson.edu). ♦ The 2021 Clemson University Faculty Manual can be viewed here: ♦ The 2021 General Faculty Meeting minutes are available and can be viewed here: ♦ The Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs & Provost has called a meeting of the faculty in accordance with Article 1§4 of the Constitution of the Faculty of Clemson University. This meeting occurs at the beginning of each academic year and typically includes a report on the State of the University from the President of the University, a report of the State of Academic Affairs from the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost, a report from the Faculty Senate President, and a report from the Faculty Representative to the Board of Trustees as well as considerations of agenda items brought to the floor in accordance with parliamentary procedure. The 2021 General Faculty Meeting will be held Monday, August 16 3:30pm-4:30pm and can be viewed here: YouTube stream link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lJ9g-zGRsDE Clemson Stream Link: https://tv.clemson.edu/live2/ ♦ The Faculty Senate passed a resolution Tuesday, April 13 recognizing the outstanding service of Clemson University staff members during the Covid-19 pandemic. The resolution can be viewed here: ♦The Clemson University Faculty Manual published August 1st, 2020 v1, is being distributed via the web and is the guide for university faculty policy and procedures effective until republished by the Faculty Senate. For the most recent and updated version of the Faculty Manual: Download the PDF format of the August 2020 (v1) Faculty Manual here! Recent revisions of the most recent version of the Faculty Manual can be found here: Faculty Manual Change 202101: Hiring Senior Lecturers Faculty Manual Change 202102: Amendment of the Reference to Faculty Evaluation System Faculty Manual Change 202103: Increasing Size of the Academic Eligibility Committee Faculty Manual Change 202104: Acting and Interim Appointments Faculty Manual Change 2020105: Extension of the Probationary Period due to the Placement of a Child ♦The Faculty Senate held a Special Meeting on Friday, June 12th, 2020 to consider the adoption of a statement that was presented by the Delegation from the College of Architecture, Arts, and Humanities during a Free Speech period before the Faculty Senate regular meeting held on Tuesday, June 9th, 2020. The statement was adopted by a majority vote during the special meeting and reflects the position of the Faculty Senate. Transcript of the Free Speech, "Statement on Racist and Violence-Inciting Social Media Posts". Faculty Senate Statement against racist and violence-inciting public expressions About The Clemson University Faculty Senate is established in Article II of the Constitution of The Faculty of Clemson University. The Faculty Senate is the representative assembly of the faculty. It represents the faculty of Clemson University in its relationship with the university administration; recommends new policies or changes in existing policies to the Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost; and promotes the welfare of the faculty and of its individual members. For over fifty years, the Faculty Senate has participated in a variety of initiatives to improve the status of the faculty of Clemson University. A history of the Faculty Senate may be found in"Clemson University Faculty Senate: Over Sixty Years of Service." Detailed information about the Faculty Senate, including membership and governing documents, as well as official meeting minutes and reports, can be found under Senate Information or in the Senate Brochure. For faculty policies affecting all Clemson Faculty, see Faculty Policies. 2021-2022 Senate Meetings The Faculty Senate meets once a month on the second Tuesday of each month. Meetings begin at 2:30 p.m., and are located in the Student Senate Chambers. Another related faculty meeting includes, per the Faculty Manual, one annual General Faculty meeting. Watch for related emails. 2021 January 12 February 9 March 9 April 13 May 11 June 8 NEW: JULY 13 August 10 September 14 October 12 November 9 December 14 2022 January 11 February 8 March 8 April 12 Location: Madren Conference Center Auditorium May 10 June 14 NO JULY MEETING August 9 September 13 October 11 November 8 December 13 Clemson University Faculty Senate on Facebook Clemson University Faculty Senate on Twitter Clemson University Faculty Senate on Instagram Contact Us Speak at Faculty Senate MeetingInformation Faculty Representative to the Board of Trustees Events JUN 1 MBA Coffee Chat: Pelham Road 10:00 am to 2:00 pm Starbucks JUN 8 Information Session 12:00 pm to 1:30 pm JUN 9 Clemson MBA Open House 9:00 am to 2:30 am Greenville ONE JUN 14 Faculty Senate Meeting 2:30 pm to 4:00 pm Edgar Brown Student Union JUL 12 Faculty Senate Meeting 2:30 pm to 4:00 pm Edgar Brown Student Union Members Policies Awards Archives Shared Governance Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram