Skip to main content GSD Logo Harvard University Graduate School of Design Reopening Menu Search Academics Department of Architecture Department of Landscape Architecture Department of Urban Planning and Design Design Studies Design Engineering Doctoral Programs Undergraduate Architecture Studies Loeb Fellowship Executive Education Early Design Education Research Courses More ▼ Apply GSD Now Give People Faculty Staff Students Alumni About Administrative Leadership Council Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Alumni and Friends Website Resources Most Popular: Admissions COVID-19 Financial Aid Frances Loeb Library Student Affairs Offices & Services All Resources → For: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Explore News Events Exhibitions Publications Podcasts Projects Topics Site Index Jump to: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A AIA Henry Adams Certificate AIA Henry Adams Medal AICP Outstanding Student Award Academic Affairs Academic Appointments and Policies Academic Calendars & Schedules Academic Conduct Policy Academic Integrity Academic Services & Advising Accellion Secure File Transfer Accessibility Services Accessibility Services at Public Programs Access to Career Services During Leave of Absence Accreditation Administrative Leadership Council Admissions Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions FAQ AfricaGSD After MDes Workshops After MDes Workshops Aga Khan Program at the GSD Alpha Rho Chi Medal Alumni Connections Alumni Council Career Panels American Society of Landscape Architects Awards Application Checklist Apply Apply for Financial Aid Apply for a Job with Computer Resources Applying for Restricted Scholarships Araldo A. Cossutta Annual Prize for Design Excellence Architecture Architecture Core Prep Areas of Concentration Art, Design, and the Public Domain Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2018 Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2019 Attendance Augmented & Virtual Reality (AR/VR) Award Details Award for Excellence in Project-Based Urban Planning Award for Excellence in Urban Design Award for Outstanding Leadership in Urban Planning and Urban Design B Benefits & Perks Biking Borrowing Print Materials Building Services Business Cards for Students C COVID-19 Information for Staff COVID-19 Testing and Tracing CREATE for Alumni CREATE for Employers CREATE for Students Canvas Capital Improvements and Projects Career Paths by Program Career Resources for Alumni Career Services: Alumni Career Services: Employers Career Services: FAQs Career Services: Faculty Career Services: Students Career Services Offerings Career Services Video Library Careers Casual Conversations With GSD Alumni Change of Address Charles Abrams Scholarship Charles Eliot Traveling Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Chauhaus Classroom Equipment Classroom Technology Clifford Wong Prize in Housing Design Commencement 2022 Commencement Information Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Communications Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Computer Accounts and Passwords Computer Labs Computer Recommendations Computer Requirements Computer Resources Group Concurrent and Joint Degrees Connecting to the File Server Connect with the GSD Contact Contact Admissions Contact Financial Aid Contact the GSD Cost Recovery Policy Course Catalog Course Descriptions Course Info Sessions and Videos Critical Conservation Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2018 Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2019 Cross-Registration Policies & Procedures Current MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements Current MUP Degree Requirements Curriculum Custodial Services D DDes & PhD Financial Aid DDes/PhD Open House Schedule DDes Guidelines for the Dissertation DDes Guidelines for the General Exam DDes Guidelines for the Prospectus DIB Annual Report DIB Programs Daniel L. Schodek Award for Technology and Sustainability Daniel Urban Kiley Teaching Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Dean’s Office Degree Checks Degree Programs Degree Requirements Policies Degree Verifications Design Computing at the GSD Design Labs Design Now: A Quarterly Podcast from Harvard’s Graduate School of Design Design Studies Thesis Prize Desktop 3D Printing Regulations Development and Alumni Relations Digital Delivery and Electronic Resources Digital Design Prize Digital Governance Policy Dimitris Pikionis Award Directions Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging at Career Services Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Offerings Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Resources Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Doctoral Grader (Union Position) Doctoral Programs Doctor of Design Program (DDes) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Document Request Form Druker Traveling Fellowship E ETH Zurich Exchange Program Early Design Education Ecologies Eligibility Email Accounts Emergencies Employer Presentations Employers & Career Paths for Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for Landscape Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for MDE Students Employers & Career Paths for MDes and DDes Students Employers & Career Paths for Urban Planning and Design Students Endowed Fellowships & Financial Aid Funds Energy and Environment Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2017 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2018 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2019 Enrollment Certifications Enrollment Policies Environmental Health and Safety at the GSD Equipment for Classroom Instruction Equitable Accountability Ergonomics Event Audiovisual Support Event Participation for Alumni Event Planning for Faculty and Staff Event Planning for Students Events Events Archive Executive Education Exemptions, Waivers, and Substitutions for MUPs Exhibitions F FAQ FERPA Fabrication Laboratory Faculty Faculty: Collaborate With Career Services Faculty Affairs Office Faculty Directory Faculty Handbooks, Administrative Policies, and Guidelines for Instruction Faculty Research Federal Work-Study Information Fellowships, Funding Sources, and Internships for Students Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Ferdinand Colloredo-Mansfeld Prize for Superior Achievement in Real Estate Studies Final Review Schedule (Spring 2021 – M1, Full-term, M2) Finance Office Financial Aid Financial Aid Application Process for Current Students Financial Aid Application for Prospective Students Financial Aid FAQ Financial Aid Handbook Financial Aid and Satisfactory Progress Financial Matters First Meetings for Option Studios Flexwork at the GSD Frances Loeb Library Fulbright U.S. Student Program G GLACIER GSD-Courances Residency Program GSD Alumni Council Career Panels GSD Community Calendar GSD Consumer Information GSD Diversity Cabinet GSD Payroll Coordinators GSD Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund GSD Radio GSD Student Payroll GSD Web Style Gain Experience General Ledger Gifts & Grants Grading Grant Aid H Harvard-MIT Course Logistics Harvard GSD Job & Internship Fair 2022 Harvard Graduate School of Design Employer Recruiting Policies Harvard Graduate School of Design Fact Book Harvard ID Card Harvard International Office Harvard Shuttle and Van Service Harvard Travel Registry Health Services Heating/Cooling Schedule Help Desk Hiring Students: Information for Faculty History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2018 History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2019 History and Philosophy of Design and Media Home How To Plot How to Post an Event to GSD Now How to Write a Resume That Stands Out Human Resources Human Resources Forms & Policies Hybrid Classroom I IT Policies Income Processing Policy and Procedures Information for Current DDes Students Information for Current PhD Students Installing AEScript AfterEffects Plugin Installing Adobe’s Creative Cloud Software Installing ArcGis Installing AutoDesk Installing Cargo Installing Cinema 4D Installing ClimateStudio Installing DesignBuilder Installing Diva for Rhino Installing Flovent Installing GRANTA EduPack Installing Houdini Installing KeyShot Installing MasterCam Installing MathCAD Installing Miro Installing Modelo Installing Multiframe and MicroStation Installing Printers For Windows Installing Printers for Mac Installing Reality Capture Installing Render Services Installing Rhino Installing RhinoTerrain Installing RobotStudio Installing SketchUp Installing SolidWorks Installing VRay for 3DS Max Installing VRay for Rhino Installing Windows on a Mac Using Parallels International Financial Aid International Student Resources Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Alien Staff Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Bunker Hill Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Dis-Armor Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – El Centro Cultural Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Hiroshima Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Homeless Vehicle Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Loro Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Personal Instrument Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Poliscar Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Abraham Lincoln Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Admiral Farragut Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Central Library Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The City Hall Tower Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Kunstmuseum Basel Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The New Mechelenians Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Real Estate Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Vehicle Irving Innovation Fellowship J J-Term Jacob Weidenman Prize James Templeton Kelley Prize Job Search Resources: Planning, Urban Design, Real Estate Julia Amory Appleton Traveling Fellowship in Architecture K KPF Traveling Fellowship Kevin V. Kieran Prize Key Requests L Landscape Architecture Landscape Architecture Faculty Office Hours Landscape Architecture Thesis Prize Leave of Absence Leaves/Withdrawals and Tuition Charges Library Access & Borrowing Library Liaisons Library Resources & Services Library Resources for Alumni and Visitors Library Staff Life at the GSD Limited-Enrollment Lottery LinkedIn Learning @ Harvard Live Course Presentations Living Guidebook to Virtual Teaching and Learning Living in Cambridge Loan Deferments Loeb Fellowship M MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements MAUD/MLAUD Student Work MArch Course Waiver and Substitution Policy and Procedures MArch Distributional Electives MArch Financial Aid MArch I AP Required Courses MArch II Required Courses MArch I Required Courses MArch Open House Schedule MArch Split Option MArch Thesis Program MDE Open House Schedule MDes Financial Aid MDes Open House Schedule MDes Research and Development Award MDes Technology MLA Degree Requirements MLA Financial Aid MLA Open House Schedule MLA Thesis Guidelines MLA Waivers and Substitutions MUP & MAUD Financial Aid MUP Degree Requirements MUP Outreach Mail Center Mail Policy Master in Architecture I Master in Architecture II Master in Design Engineering Master in Design Studies (MDes) Master in Design Studies (MDes) Pre-Fall 2021 Master in Landscape Architecture I Master in Landscape Architecture I AP Master in Landscape Architecture II Master in Real Estate Master in Urban Planning Master in Urban Planning and Juris Doctor Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Administration Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Health Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Policy Meditation Room Mediums Microsoft Teams Mindfulness, Stress Reduction, & Time Management N NAAB Accreditation Information and Resources Narratives News News Archive Newsletter Nondiscrimination Policy Norman T. Newton Prize O Obtaining a MA State ID Card Office Hour Signup Tools Office Updates Office for Urbanization Office of Career Services Office of Student Affairs Online Registration (my.Harvard) Online Teaching Resources Open Access Policy Open Faculty Positions Open House Open Non-Faculty Academic Positions Opportunities to Recruit GSD Students Option Studio Lottery Spring 2022 Option Studio Presentations Organizational Charts Orientation and Registration for Incoming Students Other Courses of Interest Other J-Term Opportunities Outside Scholarships Outstanding Leadership in Real Estate Award P Page Lists Shortcodes Parking Participate in the Summer Community Service Fellowship Program Paul M. Heffernan International Travel Award Paying for Your Program Payroll Penny White Project Fund Performance Management Performance Management Permanent Records Personnel Manuals Person of Interest (POI) Peter Rice Internship Program at Renzo Piano Building Workshop Peter Rice Prize Peter Walker and Partners Fellowship for Landscape Architecture PhD Student Bios Photo Lab Photography Guidelines Planning Newsletter Plimpton-Poorvu Design Prize Podcasts Policy on Personal Conduct Pollman Fellowship in Real Estate and Urban Development Pre-orientation for New Students Printing Costs Printing Guide Printing Tips and Known Issues Prize for Academic Excellence in Urban Planning and Urban Design Program History Program Pedagogy Projects Protected: Poster Presentations for CSFP Fellows Public Programs Publications Publics Purchases & Expenses R REA Fund Recipients Rafael Moneo Rome Travel Award Real Estate and the Built Environment Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2017 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2018 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2019 Recent DDes Graduates Recent PhD graduates Recommended Backgrounds for Option Studios Recycling, Freecycling and Composting Refunds Registrar Registration Registration Procedures Replacement Diplomas Request Update to Profile Photo Requesting a GSD Subsite Requirements 2017-18 Requirements 2018-19 Research Research Administration Research Administration Resources Research Assistant (Union Position) Research Centers & Programs Research Fellow (Union Position) Research Programs & Initiatives Research Reports & Publications Resource Center Resources for New Graduates Resources for Partners and Families Respectful and Transparent Engagement Return to Campus & Technology Richard Rogers Fellowship Risk and Resilience Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2018 Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2019 Robert A. M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) Room Reservations S Safety, Health, and Wellbeing Sample Job Posting #1 Sample Job Posting #2 Scanners Scholarships for International Students Scholarships for US Citizens and Eligible Non-citizens Seating Charts and Assigned Seating Security Shift Schedule Social Media Social Media Special Collections Special Interest Links for Architecture Students Spiritual Life Spring 2021 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2021 Thesis Review Schedule Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Final Review Schedule Staff Awards & Recognition Staff Directory Staff Newsletter Staff Printing Stationery and Branding Student & Alumni Events Student Academic Affairs Committee Student Directory Student Employment Student Forum Student Forum Open ZOOM Room Student Group Directory Student Group Guide Student Policies Student Records and Transcript Policies Student Travel Information and Costs for Option Studios Students on Leave of Absence Studio Abroad Studio Culture Policy Studio Electricity Summer Peer-Learning Sessions Sustainability at the GSD T Takenaka Summer Internship Talking Practice Tax Resources Teaching Assistant & Research Assistant: Faculty Resources Teaching Assistant (Union Position) Teaching Fellow (Union Position) Technical and Administrative Positions (Non-union Positions) Technology Guide Technology – Required Courses 2018 Technology – Required Courses 2019 Telephones Term Bill The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Title IX Tokyo Summer Workshop Topics Transcripts Transportation Travel Safety and Guidelines Traveling Fellowships Tuition Tuition and Financial Aid U UPD Faculty Office Hours UPD Thesis Guidelines Undergraduate Architecture Studies University Policies & Procedures Updating Staff Profile Photos Urban Design Faculty Profiles Urban Planning and Design Urban Planning and Design Open House Schedule Urban Planning and Design Thesis Prize Urban Planning and Public Policy Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2018 Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2019 Utilizing LinkedIn V VPN Service Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design Veteran and Military Benefits Virtual & On-Campus Events W Web: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Web Editing: Media Web Profile Photos Wellness Resources Wheelwright Prize Who We Are Work Opportunities for Students Work Order Request Form Workshops and Personal Development 2 2020 Oct Iframe test 2021-2022 Academic Year Planning 2022 Application FAQs 2022 J-Term Courses Submit Search Resource Center Scholarships for US Citizens and Eligible Non-citizens The following is a listing of outside scholarship opportunities for U.S. citizens and eligible non-citizens, which are sorted by area of interest or eligibility. Click on a subject below. General Gender/Diversity Architecture Landscape Architecture Master in Design Engineering Real Estate Energy and Environment Urban Planning and Design U.S. State Residency General (US Citizens) a/e ProNet David W. Lakamp AIA Scholarship architectsfoundation.org Two students who best demonstrate a strong interest in practice and risk management will each receive a $5,000 award. Alfred K. Priest Fellowship dartmouth.edu Awards graduate fellowships for graduates of Dartmouth College who attend Harvard University. Awards are approximately $10,000 a year. The Architectural League: Deborah J. Norden Fund archleague.org The Norden Fund awards a total of up to $5,000 annually in travel/study grants to students and recent graduates in the fields of architecture, architectural history, and urban studies. Applicants should submit in letter form a brief proposal (no more than three pages), which succinctly describes the objectives of the grant request and how it will assist the applicant’s intellectual and creative development. American-Scandinavian Foundation (ASF) amscan.org The ASF will offer around $300,000 to outstanding American students, scholars, professionals, and artists for study and/or research in Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway or Sweden. Fellowships of up to $23,000 are intended to support an academic year-long stay, and priority is given to students at the graduate level who need to spend time at foreign academic or research institutions. Grants of up to $5,000 are considered more suitable for shorter research visits, both on the graduate or post-doctoral level. Funding is available to candidates in all fields. American Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing (ASPRS) Scholarships asprs.org ASPRS is pleased to offer fourteen awards totaling more than $50,000 in value. Available to both undergraduate and graduate student members of ASPRS and others, these resources have been generated with the intention of advancing academic and professional goals within the fields of Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing and related disciplines. Coca-Cola Scholars Foundation coca-colascholarsfoundation.org The Coca-Cola Scholars Foundation supports more than 1,400 exceptional college students each year, with annual scholarships of $3.55 million awarded through 3 nationally recognized programs. East West Center Scholarships and Fellowships eastwestcenter.org The East-West Center offers a wide variety of both short- and long-term programs for individuals. Academic scholarships and fellowships, as well as educational exchange and professional development programs, are available. Edmond J. Safra Graduate Fellowship ethics.harvard.edu The Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics encourages teaching and research about ethical issues in the professions and public life. Its Graduate Fellowships support outstanding Harvard graduate and professional students who are writing dissertations or are engaged in major research on topics in practical ethics, especially ethical issues in areas such as architecture, business, education, government, law, medicine, public health, public policy, and religion. Flywire Charitable Foundation Scholarship flywire.com/company/foundation/scholarships Students in any major may apply for scholarships in the amount of $5,000 USD. Applicants must submit a short personal essay, and scholarships will be awarded to students who display a commitment to one of the following areas: social justice, global health, global citizenship, or environmental sustainability. Foreign Language and Area Studies (FLAS) Fellowship daviscenter.fas.harvard.edu Graduate FLAS applicants must be accepted for advanced training in both a foreign language and area or international studies OR be accepted for research and training in the international aspects of professional (or other) fields of study which involve further development of language proficiency. Good Citizen Scholarship citizensbank.com/scholarship Scholarships in the amount of $1,000 to $5,000 will be available to 40 students who demonstrate good citizenship through community volunteerism and leadership. Harvard Graduate Student Award ghd-dubai.hms.harvard.edu The Harvard Graduate Student Award will support advanced graduate students from Harvard University working on a dissertation or thesis research that addresses some of the most pressing health challenges in Dubai, the UAE, and the Center’s region. Dissertation or thesis research from all disciplines will be considered. Just Walkers Mobility Scholarship justwalkers.com Offers a $1,000 scholarship to undergraduate or graduate students with a mobility disability. To apply, students write an essay answering the question prompt. For more information please review the website. Kate Neal Kinley Memorial Fellowships faa.illinois.edu Three major Fellowships are awarded yearly to both U.S. nationals and international students. The application deadline is in early December. The application can be found on the Fellowship website. Lambda Alpha International lai-lef.org Offered to a graduate student pursuing a degree in one of the many fields related to land economics: architecture, geography, urban planning, landscape architecture, environmental planning, civil engineering, government, public administration, real estate, urban studies or law. The LEF Board of Directors has approved the award of a one year $3,000 US scholarship, renewable for a second year, to a selected applicant studying in the United States, Canada, or Great Britain. Donald M. Payne paynefellows.org Intended for students who are interested in pursuing careers in the Foreign Service of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). Roothbert Fund Scholarships roothbertfund.org Roothbert Fund scholarships range from $2,000-$3,000 and are open to all in the United States regardless of sex, age, color, nationality or religious background. While the Fund does not emphasize any particular form of religious practice or worship, it seeks to provide support to persons motivated by spiritual values. The Fund has awarded grants to persons entering a wide range of careers. Scioto Foundation sciotofoundation.org/services Scholarship opportunities to cover a student’s tuition, books, supplies, and fees. Segal AmeriCorps Education Award nationalservice.gov The Segal AmeriCorps Education Award is a post-service benefit received by participants who complete a term of national service in an approved AmeriCorps program–AmeriCorps VISTA, AmeriCorps NCCC, or AmeriCorps State and National. Soros Fellowship for New Americans pdsoros.org New American is defined as a resident alien (who holds a Green Card), a naturalized citizen, or the child of two parents who are both naturalized citizens. Green Card holders must have had more than one IRS filing. The grants are for $20,000. Urban Land Institute Fellowship uli.org The ULI Kenneth M. Good Graduate Student Fellowship offers eight $5,000 scholarships awarded to graduate students who intend to pursue real estate-related studies at a major North American university, including urban planning, architecture, business or business administration, geography with a real estate concentration, and real estate law or major. Student must be nominated for this scholarship by faculty. Vectorworks Design Scholarship vectorworks.net The Vectorworks Design Scholarship is open to undergraduate and graduate students enrolled in a design program for the upcoming school year. Gender / Diversity American Association of University Women aauw.org Offers several fellowships and grants for women. The Association for Women in Architecture Foundation Scholarship usascholarships.com/association-women-architecture-foundation-scholarship The Association for Women in Architecture Foundation offers an Annual Scholarship Award that is available to female students who reside or attend school in California and who are majoring in architecture, landscape architecture, urban and land planning, interior design, or environmental design. American India Foundation’s William J. Clinton Fellowship aif.org The AIF Clinton Fellowship is open to those aged 21 through 31 years of age who are Indian citizens or U.S. citizens/permanent residents and have received their undergraduate degree before the start of the fellowship. American Indian Graduate Center Scholarships app.smarterselect.com American Indian Graduate Center (AIGC) is currently accepting scholarship applications for the 2022-2023 academic year. AIGC offers many curated scholarships, up to $30,000, for Native students pursuing undergraduate, graduate, and professional degrees. Student applications are due by June 1, 2022. Association of American Indian Affairs, Inc. indian-affairs.org Applicant must be enrolled with their respective Tribe, either federally recognized or non-federally recognized Tribe, from the continental US or Alaska. Other scholarship eligibility requirements apply; please see the link above for the full list. Cyprus Children’s Fund cyprus-childrensfund.org This Foundation has a couple of different scholarship options for students who can prove that they have origins in Greece and/or Cyprus. Please visit their website for application details. Diversity Advancement Scholarship architectsfoundation.org This scholarship aims to provide assistance to individuals from a minority race or ethnicity who intend to become an architect through the pursuit of a NAAB-accredited professional degree in architecture. Gensler Diversity Scholarship gensler.com Open to all underrepresented and minority students approaching their final year of a NAAB-accredited program. Two finalists will be awarded scholarship funds and one winner will be awarded a paid summer internship. Please review the submission requirements and application deadlines at the link above. Google Anita Borg Memorial Scholarship google.com Google Anita Borg Scholarship recipients will each receive a financial award for the academic year. A group of female undergraduate and graduate students will be chosen from the applicant pool, and scholarships will be awarded based on the strength of each candidate’s academic background and demonstrated leadership. Harvard University Native American Program Fellowships and Grants hunap.harvard.edu HUNAP provides support to Harvard students to conduct research on Native American and Indigenous issues, for professional development activities, and for conference attendance. Harvey Fellows program via Mustard Seed Foundation msfdn.org Provides scholarships to Christian students who are pursuing graduate studies at premier universities in fields considered to be underrepresented by Christians and who possess a unique vision to impact society through their vocations. Hispanic Scholarship Fund hsf.net Open to those of Hispanic heritage, who are U.S. citizens, legal permanent residents, or a passport stamped I-551, with a minimum 3.0/4.0, and are enrolled full time in a US university (12 graduate units). Indian Resource Development nmsu.edu Headquartered at New Mexico State University, administered by the College of Agriculture and Home Economics in Las Cruces, New Mexico. They publish sources of financial aid available to American Indian students. The IRD has numerous funding opportunities that vary both in restriction requirements and award amounts. Influenster Scholarship influenster.com/scholarship Influenster offers a $1,000 scholarship to five female students pursuing a graduate degree in a technical field of study (STEM) field. Iranian Scholarship Foundation theisf.org The Iranian Scholarship Foundation (ISF) provides scholarships to students of Iranian descent in the United States who demonstrate exceptional academic promise, significant financial need and a dedication to community service. Iranian-American Scholarship Fund iasfund.org Students of Iranian heritage throughout the United States seeking Iranian-American community support for their studies. Islamic Scholarship Fund islamicscholarshipfund.org The Islamic Scholarship Fund (ISF) is a non-profit 501(c)(3) entity founded in 2009 whose mission is to address the underrepresentation of American Muslims in the fields and occupations that influence public opinion and make public policy. Our belief is that fostering education and improving Muslim representation in all walks of life including media and politics will lead to full integration and a better understanding of Islam and Muslims. Japanese American Citizens League Scholarship Program jacl.org Requirements for application: JACL Membership of either Individual or Student/Youth categories, personal statement, letter of recommendation, official transcripts, work experience, community involvement. Jorge Mas Canosa Freedom Foundation jmcff.org The largest scholarship program for students of Cuban descent. JVS Chicago Scholarship jvschicago.org/scholarship Educational scholarship funds from grants administered by the Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Chicago are available for Jewish college and graduate students. Karla S. Johnson Memorial Scholarship johnson-roberts.com The Karla S. Johnson Memorial Scholarship is named for Karla Johnson, AIA, a principal of Johnson Roberts Associates, Inc. This scholarship is a one-time award for a disadvantaged woman who is currently enrolled in her final year of an accredited professional degree program of architecture (BArch or MArch) at an American college or university, within the USA. Any woman, or person who identifies as female, from any race, religion, national origin, or background, who is currently enrolled in a professional architecture degree program located in the United States, and meets the eligibility requirements, may apply. Online Colleges Scholarships for Women onlinecolleges.net This new resource presents women-specific scholarships, including general criteria for each opportunity. Use the links provided to access more detailed information about eligibility and instructions for completing and submitting an application. As always, be careful about what information you provide. Payette Sho-Ping Chin Memorial Academic Scholarship architectsfoundation.org The Payette Sho-Ping Chin Memorial Academic Scholarship was established specifically for a woman studying architecture within a NAAB-accredited bachelor or master’s degree program. P.E.O. International peointernational.org P.E.O. Scholar Awards (PSA) provides substantial merit-based awards for women of the United States and Canada who are pursuing a doctoral-level degree at an accredited college or university. Point Foundation pointfoundation.org Point Foundation considers many factors when assessing scholarship applicants, including a proven track record of leadership and community involvement, strong academic achievement, and working for the betterment of the LGBTQ community. Robert L. Outland Women and Minority Scholarship + Internship moaarch.com Students in an Architecture program can apply to win a scholarship and a paid internship at MOA Architecture. SmithGroup Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Scholarship Program smithgroup.com The SmithGroup Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Scholarship Program supports and mentors students from historically underrepresented demographics in architecture, interior design, planning, landscape architecture, and engineering. Wellesley College Fellowships wellesley.edu Wellesley College offers a number of fellowships and scholarships for graduate study or research that are open to graduating seniors and Wellesley alumnae. Two of these awards are open to women graduates of any American institution. Awards are usually made to applicants currently enrolled in or applying to graduate school for the following year. WTS Foundation Scholarships wtsinternational.org The WTS Foundation works to advance women in transportation. Applicants must be in a transportation-related field, such as transportation engineering, planning, finance or logistics. WX Scholarships wxnyre.com New York Women Executives in Real Estate (WX) awards scholarships on an annual basis to promising women students studying real estate. Women enrolled in full or part-time graduate or undergraduate programs in a real estate related discipline are eligible to apply. Scholarships are awarded based on i) academic merit and demonstrated interest in real estate; ii) financial need; and iii) likelihood of working in the New York metropolitan area upon graduation. Architecture Architects Foundation architectsfoundation.org Every year, the foundation awards thousands of dollars in scholarships to architecture students in NAAB-accredited graduate degree programs, and Architect Registration Exam (ARE) candidates who are working toward becoming licensed architects. AIA Arthur N. Tuttle Jr. Graduate Fellowship in Health Facility Planning and Design aia.org Recipients are selected each year by a committee of AHA and AIA representatives on the basis of study and travel proposals submitted by young architects and graduate students in accredited U.S.-based architecture schools. AIA/Alaska Scholarship Program aiaalaska.org Open to permanent residents of Alaska who are enrolled in a Master’s Program in Architecture. Applicants must submit a transcript, letter of recommendation from a faculty member, and a resume. Applications are available on the AIA/Alaska website. AIA Diversity Scholarships aia.org The scholarship is awarded to high school graduates, college freshmen, and community college students from minority and/or financially disadvantaged backgrounds who intend to pursue a NAAB-accredited professional degree in architecture. AIA/New Hampshire Scholarship Program aianh.org Open to residents of New Hampshire who are enrolled in a NAAB accredited Architecture program or a program in a related field, such as Landscape Architecture, Architectural History, Preservation, or Planning. Scholarships of $500 to $3,000 will be awarded. The application deadline is April 15th. AIA/New Jersey Scholarship Foundation aia-nj.org Between $1,000-2,500, these awards are for residents of certain counties of Northern NJ. The application involves form, transcript, letters of reference, and a personal statement. AIA/New York cfafoundation.org Lists a number of awards for both New York state residents, and others. AIA/Eastern Pennsylvania Scholarship aiaeasternpa.org Possible scholarship assistance to qualified applicants currently enrolled in an accredited architecture program and who are serious about their long-term pursuit of licensure as a professional architect. The candidate must maintain legal residence within one of the following AIA Eastern Pennsylvania counties: Berks, Carbon, Lehigh, Monroe, Northampton, or Schuylkill. AIA/Northeastern Pennsylvania Scholarship luzfdn.org The NEPA Chapter of the AIA Scholarship Fund is open to any “local” area student(s) who have received their high school diploma, and/or received a 2-year Associate Degree and have been admitted into and are attending any NAAB accredited (or NAAB Candidate) Bachelor of Architecture or Master of Architecture program. In this case, “local ” refers to any of the following counties in Pennsylvania state: Bradford, Columbia, Lackawanna, Luzerne, Pike, Sullivan, Susquehanna, Wayne, Wyoming. Candidates must also possess the will and the ability to successfully pursue a college career, and have the academic ability, talent, and economic need for assistance in meeting tuition expenses in pursuit of an architectural degree. AIA/Rochester Scholarship Program aiaroc.org This scholarship is open to college students currently enrolled in an architecture program for the 2021 – 2022 academic year. The scholarship is open to student who have a permanent residence within the seven-county area of Allegany, Livingston, Monroe, Ontario, Seneca, Wayne, and Yates counties, or Greater Rochester member-firm areas served by AIA Rochester. The deadline for submission is April 15, 2022. Email aia@aiaroch.org for more information. AIAS/AIA Trust Scholarship for Emerging Professionals aias.org Offered to members of AIAS in their first year of a professional degree in Architecture. AIA/New York Chapter Design Awards aiany.org These $1,000 scholarships are to encourage writing on architecture and related design subjects and to foster regard for intelligent criticism among future professionals. To be eligible, you must be enrolled in a professional architecture program or related discipline. The application includes a criticism, story, essay, or book review accompanied by a 100-word descriptive statement. Two submissions per entrant. AIA/Northern Nevada aiann.org The Graham Erskine Memorial Scholarship and Raymond Hellman Scholarship are open to residents of Nevada. AIA/South Dakota Scholarship Program aiasouthdakota.org Open to residents of South Dakota involved as a full-time student at a school of architecture in the 3rd, 4th, or 5th-year level. Student must also be of good character and show above-average scholarship ability. AIA/Southern New York Chapter Scholarship aiaroc.org Applicants must be a resident of one of the ten counties the AIA Southern New York Chapter serves (Broome, Chemung, Chenango, Cortland (Southern), Delaware, Otsego, Schuyler, Steuben, Tioga, Tompkins) and must be enrolled in an architecture program. Awardees will receive a $2,500 scholarship that must be used toward school expenses. Email lbhewitt@aiaroch.org for the application and more information. AIA/Wisconsin Foundation Out-of-State Study Scholarships aiaw.org The Wisconsin Architects Foundation provides $1,000 scholarships to Wisconsin students pursuing the study of architecture out-of-state. Students must have graduated from high school in Wisconsin to be considered for this award. AIA/Wyoming Scholarship aia-wyoming.org Open to Wyoming residents or Wyoming high school graduates currently enrolled in a master’s program in architecture. To be eligible, students must have completed three or more semesters in a program leading to an accredited degree in architecture. For information, visit the website or call 307-632-4077. Architects/Engineers Professional Network aepronet.org Various national scholarship funds administered through professional societies, including locally administered grants available for awards in each member’s local territory. National scholarships are awarded principally to students of architecture and engineering schools where the applicant’s studies principally emphasize practice management. Bergmeyer Scholarship bergmeyer.com This scholarship intended for a designer who is working towards a career in Interior Design. The Bergmeyer Scholarship recognizes and supports leadership potential in the field of Interior Design and Architecture through a $2,500 award. Connecticut Architecture Foundation Scholarship cafct.org Students who have completed two years in accredited undergraduate architectural programs or have been accepted into an accredited graduate program are eligible to apply for this scholarship. Applicants must have a Connecticut connection (residence, school, work, etc.) in order to apply. In recent years, the individual awards have ranged from $2,000 to $5,000, depending upon the funds available in that year. Ehrlich Rominger Scholarship siliconvalleycf.org The Ehrlich Rominger Scholarship Fund was established by Mr. Joseph Ehrlich and Mr. Jack Rominger to assist with the education of future architectural professionals. Graham Foundation grahamfoundation.org Awards approximately 100 grants and fellowships for the study of architecture. Their site contains an easily searchable database of all awards and does not ask marketing questions. Indiana Architectural Foundation indianaarchitecturalfoundation.org Scholarships are available for students who are permanent residents of the state of Indiana and in an Architecture Degree program. Scholarships range from $1,000 to $5,000. Jewish Vocational Service jvschicago.org Educational scholarship funds from grants administered by the Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Chicago are available for Jewish college and graduate students. Approximately $500,000 is available each year for full-time students, predominantly those legally domiciled in the metropolitan Chicago area, with career promise in their chosen fields. Assistance is available primarily for those with FINANCIAL NEED who are pursuing careers in the helping professions. Scholarships range from $1,000 to $8,000. Leo and Trinidad Sanchez Scholarship siliconvalleycf.org This scholarship was established by Gil Sanchez in memory and honor of his parents, Leo and Trini Sanchez, who emigrated from Mexico to the United States in the 1910s. Gil’s hope is that this scholarship will encourage and help further the education of young people seeking to become architects. Steele Architecture Scholarship tfec.org Joseph L. and Vivian E. Steele Architecture Scholarship is open to students who are present or former residents of one of the following Pennsylvania counties: Dauphin, Cumberland, York, Perry, Franklin, Lebanon, Adams, Fulton, Juniata, Lancaster, Montour, Snyder, Bedford, Blair, Centre, Clinton, Huntingdon, Mifflin, Union, or Northumberland, and studying in the final three years of a Bachelor of Architecture program OR in a graduate program leading to a Master of Architecture degree TCAA Architecture Scholarship www.tcaainc.org The Tile Contractors Association of America will award a $5,000 scholarship to a qualifying student who at the time of application is working toward an undergraduate or graduate level professional degree in Architecture or Interior Design. Yann Weymouth Graduate Scholarship architectsfoundation.org This scholarship was established to support a graduate student studying architecture within a NAAB-accredited master’s degree program. The student’s work should demonstrate an exemplary focus at the design intersection of sustainability, resilience, wellness, and beauty. Zimmer Gunsul Frasca Architectural Scholarship Fund www.zgf.com Applicants entering final year of MArch I or MArch I AP degree program are eligible for this scholarship. Landscape Architecture Garden Club of America gcamerica.org Lists various awards for Landscape Architecture and Environmental Studies. LAF Scholarships asla.org The Landscape Architecture Foundation offers many annual scholarship opportunities. Leadership in Landscape Scholarship lafoundation.org The Landscape Architecture Foundation offers nine different scholarships, with awards ranging from $2,000 to $5,000. Graduate students who display superior performance or have unmet financial needs may qualify. The Linda Milbourn Fellowship in Landscape Architecture publicgardens.org/scholars/milbourn-moresla.org The Linda Milbourn Fellowship in Landscape Architecture will award $5,000 per application cycle to one student enrolled in a college/university graduate-level program pursuing a degree in landscape architecture. Applicant must demonstrate involvement in an experiential learning project (research, project, plan, or other direct impacts/benefit) to a recognized Association member public garden, botanic garden, arboretum or other closely aligned public horticulture institution in the U.S. Eligibility is open to U.S. citizens and resident aliens. Karen Ann Shopis-Fox Memorial Scholarship ctasla.org Scholarship applicants must be legal residents of the State of Connecticut and enrolled in an accredited landscape architecture program at the college or university level. David T. Woolsey Scholarship lafoundation.org Open to third-, fourth-, or fifth-year undergraduate or graduate students of landscape architecture at Landscape Architecture Accreditation Board (LAAB) accredited programs, whose permanent residence is Hawaii. Up to $2,000 is awarded. Master in Design Engineering Defense Threat Reduction Agency Opportunities dtra.mil/Careers/Strategic-Recruiting-Programs/ DTRA uses a wide variety of federal and agency managed programs to recruit new talent. Google Student Veterans of America Scholarship buildyourfuture.withgoogle.com The scholarship provides assistance to student veterans who are pursuing university degrees in the field of computer science, computer engineering, or a degree in a closely related technical field in the U.S. Real Estate Byron Hanke Fellowship for Graduate Study cairf.org Awarded by the Community Associations Institute Research Foundation in the amount of $2,500. The Hanke Fellow must be working on a graduate degree that in some way focuses on community associations or common interest properties. In the past, the Research Foundation has made awards available for papers to students in Law, Economics, Urban Planning, and Real Estate areas. CREW Boston Educational Foundation Scholarship crewboston.org The scholarship is awarded to a female student(s) entering her junior or senior year of undergraduate school or entering or enrolled in a graduate program at an accredited college or university based in New England. The student must demonstrate an interest in pursuing a career in the commercial real estate industry through her course studies and/or internships in a commercial real estate firm. CREW Network Scholarship crewnetwork.org The CREW Network Foundation scholarship program supports future female leaders as they pursue university-level education that will lead to careers in commercial real estate. FIABCI Scholarship Foundation fiabci-usa.com The FIABCI Scholarship Foundation provides aid and travel assistance to students who demonstrate an interest in the field of international real estate or are enrolled in real estate related courses at a qualified university. You must be a member, member’s spouse, or a dependent of a member in order to apply. ICSC Foundation Scholarships icsc.org Several scholarship opportunities related to the field of Real Estate are listed. Pension Real Estate Association prea.org This scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate students studying real estate. Energy & Environment Department of Energy Scholars Program orise.orau.gov The DOE Scholars Program will provide students and recent graduates with experiences and training that will prepare and motivate them to pursue careers with DOE. Participants in the program will have a competitive edge for showcasing their talents, education, and skills while familiarizing themselves with DOE functions. This is a ten week summer program. National Center for Environment Research epa.gov The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is offering various Graduate Fellowships for master’s and doctoral level students in environmentally related fields of study. This list includes the EPA STAR Fellowship supporting environmental studies at the graduate level. Urban Planning and Design APA Charles Abrams Scholarship planning.org For citizens of the United States who are enrolled or have been accepted for enrollment at the graduate planning programs of Columbia, Harvard, MIT, the New School for Social Research, or the University of Pennsylvania, an award of $2,000 is given to one winner each year. Students must be nominated by the urban planning program faculty and approved by the department chair and program director. At Harvard, nominations are made in the spring of a student’s first year at the GSD. APA Division Scholarships planning.org Several divisions of the American Planning Association sponsor a variety of competitions, scholarships, fellowships, and grants for students enrolled in degree programs in planning or a closely related field. APA Judith McManus Price Scholarship planning.org Women and minority (African American, Hispanic American, or Native American) students enrolled in an approved Planning Accreditation Board (PAB) planning program who are citizens of the United States, intend to pursue careers as practicing planners in the public sector and are able to demonstrate a genuine financial need are eligible to apply for this scholarship which will range between $2,000 to $4,000. The deadline is April 30th. Graduate Research Fellowships: National Science Foundation nsfgrfp.org NSF Graduate Fellowships offer recognition and three years of support for advanced study to approximately 900 outstanding graduate students. Approximately 90 awards will be in the Women in Engineering (WENG) and Women in Computer and Information Science (WICS) components. Most tailored to Urban Planning and Design students. International Facility Management Association Foundation foundation.ifma.org Scholarships are available annually to graduate and undergraduate students pursuing degrees in facility management or related fields. IFMA Foundation scholarships are awarded based on merit and certain restrictions and/or qualification requirements may apply. US State Residency JVS Chicago jvschicago.org To be eligible applicants must be Jewish full-time students with financial need. Scholarships are granted to students who show promise in their chosen careers, especially those entering professions dedicated to helping others. Applicants must also be born and/or raised in either Cook County, Chicago metropolitan area, or Northwest Indiana or have one continuous year of full-time employment in Cook County or Chicago metropolitan area prior to starting professional education. Walter S Barr Fellowships horacesmithfund.org These awards for full time study beyond the Bachelor’s Degree are made annually to Hampden County, Massachusetts residents selected by the Fellowship Committee. Awards are made on the basis of scholastic record, available resources, need and other pertinent information. Worcester County Horticultural Society Scholarship towerhillbg.org Award ranges from $500-$2,000. The applicant must be entering the junior or senior year of an undergraduate or graduate degree program. The applicant must also be a resident of New England or attending a New England college/university and majoring in horticultural or a horticultural-related field. Phone: 617-869-6111, ext. 24. Leopold Schepp Foundation scheppfoundation.org Awards are based on merit and financial need. Applicants can receive up to $8,500 a year. New Jersey Class Loans (NJCLASS) hesaa.org NJCLASS offers low-cost supplemental loans to New Jersey residents attending an eligible in-state or out-of-state school Modular Building Institute Awards of Distinction modular.org Students have the chance to win a grant for $2500 if their design is selected. For more information and application materials please visit the Modular Building Institute website. Noma-Reischauer Prize in Japanese Studies rijs.fas.harvard.edu The prize will be awarded annually for the best essays on Japan-related topics written by Harvard University students; one prize of $3,000 for the best essay by a graduate student. Operation Money Wise mass.gov/how-to/apply-for-operation-money-wise Empowering Military, Veteran and Survivor Community in the Massachusetts area. An opportunity funded through the Division of Banks for grants up to $5,000. Oregon Community Foundation oregoncf.org Scholarships are open to students from Oregon. For more information please visit their website. PLAN NH Fellowship and Scholarship plannh.org The scholarship is open to an architectural student who is/was a resident of New Hampshire. Find out more information about the scholarship at their website. Prev Next Close Slideshow Back to top Harvard University Graduate School of Design © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Privacy Accessibility Digital Accessibility Maps Contact COVID-19 GSD API Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, exhibitions, and more. Email* Δ Version 1.11.26