Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF LAW SCHOOL OF LAW LAW C Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 LAW C 507 Constitutional Law I: Constitutional Structures of Government for International Law Graduates (3) Seeks to provide an understanding of the history and theories behind the Constitution, including the source of the federal government's power, the division of power between the federal and state governments, and the distribution of federal power among the legislative, executive, and judicial branches of government. View course details in MyPlan: LAW C 507 LAW C 510 Professional Ethics for International LLM Students (1-4, max. 4) Karen E Boxx Provides foreign-trained LLM students background in professional responsibility issues, including confidentiality, conflicts of interest, role of the lawyer, and understanding business issues. Designed for international students to master professional responsibility rules online prior to arrival at law school, with discussion sections while in residence. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: LAW C 510 LAW C 530 For-Profit Small Firm Externship (4-6) Field-based experience in pre-approved for-profit small law firm (10 attorneys or fewer) under supervision of authorized field supervisor. Students may not receive any monetary compensation for the work, nor may clients be billed for work performed by a student. Students must enroll concurrently in an approved companion seminar. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: LAW C 530 LAW C 535 For-Profit Corporate Counsel Externship (4-6) Field-based experience in pre-approved corporate legal department under supervision of authorized field supervisor. Students may not receive any monetary compensation for the work, nor may clients be billed for work performed by a student. Students must enroll concurrently in an approved companion seminar. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: LAW C 535 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022