Skip to main navigation Skip to main content School of Social Work Centers & Programs Center for Social Innovation Research Program on Children and Adversity Center on Aging & Work Search BC.edu Links Center on Aging & Work Menu Main Nav Center on Aging & Work Contact Back Back Close About Staff & Faculty Affiliates Research Overview Projects Understanding the Aging Workforce and Employment at Older Ages Self-Employment in Later Life Investigating the Impact of the Senior Community Service Employment Program Investigating the Impact of the Senior Community Service Employment Program Publications Databases & Tools Sloan Research Network News Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Social Work Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Center for Social Innovation Research Program on Children and Adversity Center on Aging & Work BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The Center on Aging & Work aims to promote opportunity, choice, and quality of paid and unpaid work across the lifespan, with a focus on older adults. Through research and engagement with a multi-disciplinary network of scholars and practitioners, we connect research to practice. Our Vision To Make Longer Life a Better Life. Center Research Projects The Center is conducting several studies about the health, mental health, and quality of life of the aging workforce in the U.S. and around the world. Learn More Publications Since its founding in 2005, the Center has produced hundreds of fact sheets, case studies, comparative policy summaries, policy briefs, and research reports. Learn More Databases & Tools The Center has produced a variety of translational research products to facilitate organizational efforts to adapt to shifting workforce age demographics. Learn More Center News Two scholars receive $1.7M from the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health to study the link between work and well-being Erika Sabbath and Cal Halvorsen will team up with the Harvard Center for Work, Health, and Well-Being to carry out the research, which will examine organizational policies, practices, and programs that impact the health of workers. COVID-19 has widened the generational divide. One professor is helping to bridge the gap. Assistant professor Cal Halvorsen has been named a senior fellow at Encore.org, a nonprofit that makes it easier for people over 50 to pursue second careers. Over the next two years, he will evaluate its Gen2Gen Innovation Fellowship program, which finds new ways to bring older and younger people together. The coronavirus has hit older workers hard. Gerontologists at BC want to help. Christina Matz, an associate professor in the School of Social Work, recently urged the state of Massachusetts to require employers to provide reasonable accommodations to older workers to keep them healthy, safe, and productive in the workplace. More Center News and Notes Faculty Affiliate Spotlight Cal J. Halvorsen Cal J. Halvorsen is an assistant professor at the Boston College School of Social Work, senior research fellow at Encore.org, and co-lead of the Grand Challenge to Advance Long and Productive Lives through the American Academy of Social Work & Social Welfare. Much of Dr. Halvorsen’s scholarly work has considered the antecedents, experiences, and outcomes of self-employment and entrepreneurship in later life. Faculty Profile Christina Matz Christina Matz has been affiliated with the Center since 2006. Her research examines the complex pathways between health/well-being and engagement during later life, with a focus on social and productive activities. The goal of her research is to identify interventions that reduce the burden of disease and disability on families, communities, and society, and improve the overall quality of life of older adults. Faculty Profile Kevin Cahill Kevin Cahill writes on topics related to applied microeconomics, with a focus on the economics of aging and labor market transitions later in life. His current projects examine patterns of labor force withdrawal—including bridge job employment, phased retirement, and re-entry—retirement income, and occupational changes later in life. He is a partner and senior economist at ECONorthwest. Profile Fall Institutes—Sloan Research Network Research that Matters to Employers: Overcoming the Constraints of Later Life Work Research that Matters to Employers: Overcoming the Constraints of Later Life Work Exploring Justice, Equity, and Inclusion for Older Workers in the Changing Context of Aging and Work Exploring Justice, Equity, and Inclusion for Older Workers in the Changing Context of Aging and Work Back To Top Back To Top The Center on Aging & Work 140 Commonwealth Avenue McGuinn Hall, 106k Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 agework@bc.edu About Admission Academics Faculty Research Community Apply Visit Give Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College