People Home Administration Fellows Events Upcoming Events Events Archive Projects Rethinking Public Religion Joint Projects Past Projects Opportunities Joint Projects Summer Research Fellowships Undergraduate Summer Fellowships Dissertation Fellowships The Claremont Prize Public Outreach Fellowships Media Reports Videos Podcast Book Series People Home Administration Fellows Events Upcoming Events Events Archive Projects Rethinking Public Religion Joint Projects Past Projects Opportunities Joint Projects Summer Research Fellowships Undergraduate Summer Fellowships Dissertation Fellowships The Claremont Prize Public Outreach Fellowships Media Reports Videos Podcast Book Series Columbia University the institute for religion, culture and public life About The Institute for Religion, Culture and Public Life supports academic research, teaching, and scholarship on the study of religion, culture, and social difference at Columbia University. In addition, it convenes academic conferences, public forums, and collaborative programming to support and extend academic and scholarly understanding of these topics, and to disseminate and distribute such new understandings to broader publics and communities. The Institute actively supports scholarship, teaching and public programming across the Faculty of Arts and Sciences as well as in the University more broadly under the auspices and oversight of the Department of Religion. What’s New What's new Applications now open: dissertation fellowships for PhD students The IRCPL Dissertation Fellowship provides students with $5,000 towards the completion of their dissertation over the course of an academic semester (typically the fall semester). IRCPL Dissertation Fellows are expected to attend a monthly seminar with the Director of IRCPL, in which they will have the opportunity to present a chapter on which they are working and receive feedback. Applications for the 2022 Dissertation Fellowship are due on Wednesday, May 18th, 2022. Read more News > Events RELIGION AND PUBLIC LIFE Our core event series, Religion and Public Life, provides a platform for exploration and debate of the most pressing current events. In recent years, we have discussed the rise of populism, faith and religion in works of fiction, the movement of people across the Mediterranean, and Native American claims to religious freedom. The Magic Series This event series considers the ways in which magic relates to modernity. Some of the questions being addressed include: What is the difference between “stage” magic and “real” magic? Is magic (always) a term of colonization and discrimination? What is a witch hunt, and how can we understand that term’s rhetorical deployment by politicians and other public figures? Religion and Climate Change This series explores the ways in which religious communities are reacting to and acting upon the ecological upheavals and disruptions facing people across the globe. It will cover a broad spectrum of topics from, on one end, the denial—and sometimes even active hastening—of climate change, to, on the other end, an insistence on proactive stewardship and ethics of conservation. Opportunities Joint projects IRCPL will fund projects by Columbia University faculty that aim to understand the role of religion in the contemporary world and its historical roots. Joint Project funding may be applied to research projects, seminars, conferences, working groups, and other programs that bring together an interdisciplinary group of scholars. student fellowships Every year, IRCPL awards a number of research fellowships to students travelling over the summer to complete their dissertation or other research projects. In addition, the IRCPL Dissertation Fellowship provides advanced graduate students with $5,000 towards the completion of their doctoral dissertation over the course of an academic semester THE CLAREMONT PRIZE The Claremont Prize in the Study of Religion is dedicated to the publication of first books by early career scholars working in any discipline of the humanities or social sciences. Prize-winners will be invited to IRCPL to participate in a workshop and the books will appear in IRCPL’s series, “Religion, Culture, and Public Life,” published by Columbia University Press. ➤ LOCATION 475 Riverside Drive Room 308G New York, NY 10115 ☎ CONTACT ircpl@columbia.edu 646-745-8528 Subscribe to the IRCPL newsletter Email Address Sign Up Thank you!