Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Arts and Culture You are here Home Life at Temple Arts & Culture Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library At Temple, you'll find a city's worth of culture right here on campus. Each year, we host hundreds of world-class performances and exhibits that nurture the human spirit, open your eyes to diverse ideas and contribute to a rich campus life. On Campus Boyer College of Music and Dance The Boyer College is home to a vibrant community of outstanding artists, educators and scholars. Each year, the college presents and hosts a wide variety of public performances and provides myriad opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration among students, faculty and cultural partners. Learn more about Boyer. Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts is a comprehensive and unified academic unit consisting of the Boyer College of Music and Dance and the Division of Theater, Film and Media Arts. The center serves its neighboring communities, and national and international audiences, through more than 500 annual events, performances, lectures and exhibits. Learn more about Temple's Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. Film and Media Arts Creativity, innovation and award-winning work emanate from this department, which has emerged as one of the leading academic and creative programs in the country. Learn more about Temple's film and media arts offerings. Liacouras Center Many of Temple's biggest events happen at the Liacouras Center, including basketball games, concerts, dramatic presentations and graduation ceremonies. This 10,200-seat indoor arena has seen many memorable moments since it opened in 1997. Learn more about upcoming events at the Liacouras Center. Library Programs and Exhibits The Temple University Libraries host a series of programs during the fall and spring semesters, “Beyond the Page: Exploring the Cultural, Historical, and Scholarly Record.” Lectures, book talks, exhibitions and panels are free and open to all. These programs broaden the educational opportunities taking place outside the classroom at Temple and enhance the university’s standing as an arts and cultural center in north Philadelphia. Learn more about library programs and exhibits. Poets & Writers Series The College of Liberal Arts and the English Department are home to award-winning creative writers in both fiction and poetry. Each semester, the Poets & Writers series—which takes place on Main Campus and in Center City—hosts some of the most exciting writers working today. All readings are free and open to the public. Read more about our Poets & Writers series. Temple Performing Arts Center One of the country's most unique performance venues, the Temple Performing Arts Center is located in the former Baptist Temple church. This magnificent historic landmark has been repurposed to bring new vitality to Temple's campus and new opportunities to Philadelphia's arts, culture and business communities. Learn more about the Temple Performing Arts Center. Theater The Department of Theater is a nationally significant, competitive, professional training program with a resident company that encompasses production, performance and scholarship at the highest level of artistic academic excellence. Learn more about theater at Temple. Tyler School of Art and Architecture The classrooms, studios and galleries in the Tyler School of Art and Architecture teem with activity, ideas and inspiration. The school's state-of-the-art home on Main Campus boasts the most advanced visual-arts facilities in the region and functions as a world-class exhibition space, including Temple Contemporary. Learn more about the Tyler School of Art and Architecture. In Philadelphia Greater Philadelphia Cultural Alliance Temple Theaters, Temple Contemporary and the Boyer College of Music and Dance are members of the Greater Philadelphia Cultural Alliance, the region's premier leadership, advocacy and audience development organization for arts and culture. The alliance's mission is to lead, strengthen and give voice to a diverse cultural sector that is making Philadelphia a world-class region in which to live, work and play. Learn more about cultural events in Philadelphia. VisitPhilly.com Want to know what's happening in Philadelphia? VisitPhilly.com is the official visitor site for greater Philadelphia and offers a complete list of events, attractions, restaurants and hotels in the city. Learn more about visiting Philadelphia. Go back to Life at TempleMore in Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.