Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University & Student Business Services Staff Directory Fees Summer 2021 Calendars Students Parents Campus Card USBS Info/Policies Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Fees Credit/Debit Card Usage Fees Deadlines & Dates Explanation of Fees Fee Adjustment (Refund) Policy Military Tuition Assistance (TA) Refund Policy and Schedule Fee Charts Fee Discounts, Waivers & Tuition Assistance Fee Payment Policies Financial Assistance Guaranteed Tuition Installment Payment Plan Payment Options Third Party/Direct Billing Take Action TigerXpress Cost of Tuition Estimator Forms Contact Us Follow Us Online twitter Home University & Student Business Services Fees Military Tuition Assistance (TA) Refund Policy MILITARY TUITION ASSISTANCE (TA) REFUND POLICY AND SCHEDULE Policy Statement: Military Tuition Assistance (TA) is awarded to a student under the assumption that the student will attend school for the entire period for which the assistance is awarded. When a student withdraws, the student may no longer be eligible for the full amount of TA funds originally awarded. To comply with the Department of Defense (DOD) policy, University of Memphis will return any unearned TA funds on a prorated basis through at least the 60% portion of the period for which the funds were provided. TA funds are earned proportionally during an enrollment period, with unearned funds returned based upon when a student stops attending. In instances when a Service member stops attending due to a military service obligation, University of Memphis will work with the affected service member to identify solutions that will not result in a student debt for the returned portion in compliance with the DOD policy. Rational or Purpose: This policy serves to fully inform students receiving military tuition assistance of the required actions the College must take to comply with the DOD Memorandum of Understanding Return Policy for Military Tuition Assistance funds rules and align with the return of unearned student aid rules applicable to the Federal Student Aid as required under section 484B of the Department of Education Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965. Scope: This policy applies only to students receiving Military Tuition Assistance. This tuition assistance is a benefit that is available only while the student is in the service. This policy does not apply to Veterans or Veterans benefits. Procedures: To remain in compliance with the Department of Defense’s policy, University of Memphis will return any unearned TA funds through at least 60% of the semester on a prorated basis. The amount of unearned TA that is returned is based on the date of withdrawal from the course. After 60% of the semester has passed, TA will not be evaluated for a return to the DOD. University of Memphis will bill the DOD after 60% of the semester has passed to reduce the amount of incorrect TA funds being disbursed by the DOD. University of Memphis will bill for the amount the student earned given their enrollment. Schedule for returning unearned TA: Bold type identifies the 60% complete point Note: The educational institution’s week of instruction is counted as 7 days 7-Week Course: withdrawal submitted Before or during week 1 100% return During week 2 75% return During weeks 3 50% return During week 4 40% return (60% of course is completed) During weeks 5 – 7 0% return 16-Week Course: withdrawal submitted Before or during weeks 1 – 2 100% return During weeks 3 – 4 75% return During weeks 9 – 10 40% return (60% of course is completed) During weeks 11 – 16 0% return For courses that have durations differing from those listed above: Unearned TA funds will be returned on a prorated basis, depending on the length of the course. To determine the amount of TA that needs to be returned, the institution will determine the date the withdrawal was submitted, and then divide that by the number of days in the term to determine the percentage of TA that was earned by the student. Example: The student enrolled in a course that’s duration is 30 days. The withdrawal was submitted on the 14th day. The institution would perform the calculation to determine how much TA was earned by the student’s attendance: (14 divided by 30 equals 46.6%. 47% of the TA authorized was earned by the student, which means 53% of what was authorized will be returned to the DOD). Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/19/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.