Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources Undergraduate Education At NC State, you'll gain more than a diploma. We're here to shape resilient, creative thinkers who excel at whatever they do. Bold Thinkers Blossom Here We believe that real learning opportunities come from getting your hands dirty. Taking big swings (and sometimes missing). Pushing yourself and persevering. Leaving your comfort zone to land somewhere better. Every one of our undergraduates, regardless of what they choose to study, gets a supportive environment brimming with rich experiences that provoke their mind and prepare them for the future. On this campus, you’ll unite powerful ideas with purposeful action. You’ll think and do. Start Exploring Majors and Minors From accounting to zoology and everything in between. We have more than 100 majors and 120 minors to discover. See the full list Colleges and Departments Scout out an academic home among 68 departments housed throughout our 12 colleges. Browse our offerings Choose Your Own Adventure Our students don’t just learn in the classroom. They gain insights in greenhouses and makerspaces, along shorelines and amid rain forests, at design studios and in microgravity labs — anywhere inspiration strikes. And their coursework is always backed up by practice and real-world application. Whether you pick up a pipette, a paintbrush or a passport, you’ll benefit from high-impact experiences designed to help you deepen your understanding. Study Abroad 200+ Study-Abroad Programs across dozens of countries Studying abroad gives you vital international exposure that brings your lessons to life and sets you up to excel in our diverse, global society — without delaying graduation. Start your voyage with one of more than 200 programs, ranging from pursuing conservation biology in the Bahamas to studying architecture at our own European Center in Prague. Be a global citizen Undergraduate Research 150+ Student Research Projects funded in the 2019-2020 academic year Ready to roll up your sleeves and get to work on some of our society’s most pressing problems? We could use your help. Research is a part of each undergraduate student’s experience, and you can jump in right away. Explore opportunities across all disciplines while digging into challenges like global health and sustainability. Get curious Leadership and Service 9,800+ Service Hours performed across 25 Alternative Service Break trips in the 2019-2020 year Leaders are homegrown on this campus, and they build momentum here to better our world. We offer leadership development programs that empower you to confidently create positive, inclusive change. We also believe that leading and serving go hand in hand, so you’ll find meaningful ways to give back, including mentorship programs, Alternative Spring Break trips and our campus food pantry. Lead, serve, grow Internships and Co-ops #15 Best Public School for Internships Princeton Review We’re passionate about giving students a head start on their careers. You’ll have help landing internships and other professional opportunities, and our Centennial Campus puts you steps away from industry leaders ready to supply on-the-job experience. Our university is also home to one of the largest cooperative education programs statewide, where students apply their knowledge during alternating semesters of full-time study and full-time work. Build your resume Exceling at Microsoft Thanks in part to support and guidance from NC State’s Career Development Center, Selena Harrison ’22 enjoyed an unforgettable summer internship with Microsoft. Hear her story Supporting the Whole Student We’re one of the only universities nationally to unite our academic and student affairs into one office. That’s because we take a holistic approach to supporting our students — not just in their studies, but also in their lives. Once you set foot on our campus, know that you’ll never walk alone. You’ll have access to numerous resources, services and advocates focused on promoting your well-being. Academic and Student Affairs Student Life We’re a diverse, welcoming community with opportunities for connection, fun and growth around every corner. Inclusion and Well-Being Your physical and mental health matter, so we work hard to create a space where all members of our Pack can thrive. Support and Advocacy Get a helping hand from advocates and campuswide assistance programs that move you from dream to degree. Academic Help Need help with coursework or advice on your degree path? We’ll walk you through it all with our Academic Success Center and advising services. Prepared for Anything None of us knows what the future holds. So we focus on instilling a problem-solving mindset and innovative spirit that will ready you for every new opportunity. No matter what you plan to do next, no matter your major, you’ll find the building blocks right here. We’ve produced industry leaders, intellectual luminaries, community organizers and entrepreneurs. And they go on to do extraordinary things because they started at NC State. Career Development $54K+ Starting Salary for our average graduating senior When our graduates enter the workforce, they hit the ground running thanks to the prep they did on our campus. NC State has dedicated counselors who work side by side with you to chart your career trajectory, fine-tune your resume, develop your interviewing skills and more. Added bonus? We host some of the region’s largest career fairs and boast a strong alumni association that seeks out our exceptional students, so you’ll start growing your network from day one. Be career ready Entrepreneurship #15 in Undergraduate Entrepreneurship Princeton Review This is a place where entrepreneurial energy ignites. If you’ve got a winning idea, we’ve got the tools and resources to make it a reality. Get started creating in innovative hubs and makerspaces. Find guidance from faculty and startup leaders. And develop valuable connections with invested alumni and community members that will last beyond graduation. Your light-bulb moment awaits Postgraduate Education Your next step after your tassel turn may be heading back to school. We provide a unique, interdisciplinary foundation that will make you a standout applicant whether you’re furthering your education here or studying somewhere else. Dig Deeper Graduate School NC State’s nationally renowned Graduate School offers 160 master’s programs and 62 doctoral programs. Get to know them Accelerated Programs Motivated undergrads can complete the requirements for both their bachelor’s and master’s degrees at a faster pace. Find out how Preprofessional Programs Hoping to become a doctor, lawyer or veterinarian? Our tailored advising and programs cultivate competitive candidates. Learn what’s available Apply to NC State Ready to take the next step toward calling our university home? Figure out what it takes to join the Wolfpack. Begin your journey Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.