Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Division of Administration and Finance Administration and Finance right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Leadership Units Policies Business right arrow down arrow Business Core Systems right arrow down arrow Catalyst UC Flex Community Development Travel Resources right arrow down arrow Concur Travel and Expense Management Concur Training right arrow down arrow Concur FAQs Best Practice Guide Training Guides and Videos Concur SSO Login Travel Resources Contacts Policy and Travel Tools Travel Cancellation Guidance Concur Guest Account Login Environmental Health & Safety right arrow down arrow Waste Management Training right arrow down arrow Advanced Laboratory Safety Training Animal Care Safety Training Defensive Driving Training Facilities Mgmt/Construction Training Laboratory Compliance Training Principal Investigators Training Orientation & Informational Courses Emergency Procedures right arrow down arrow Work-related Injuries & Illnesses Lab Safety Resources & Documents right arrow down arrow Advisories Additional Information Frequently Asked Questions Our Mission right arrow down arrow Laboratory Safety with an Attitude Programs right arrow down arrow Occupational Safety right arrow down arrow IACUC Information Hazardous Materials Management Environmental Engineering right arrow down arrow Pollution Control Asbestos/Lead Abatement Industrial Hygiene Health & Safety Administration Contact Us Facilities Management right arrow down arrow Departments right arrow down arrow Central Receiving Grounds Housekeeping Mail Services Maintenance & Operations Moving Services Project Services Transportation Services right arrow down arrow Shuttle Services UC*Metro Program Charters and Rentals Utilities right arrow down arrow Utilities: Production Utilities: Distribution Dashboards Energy Conservation Recycling @ UC COVID-19 Information right arrow down arrow Cleaning right arrow down arrow Classroom Cleaning Office Cleaning Hand Sanitizer Stations Specialized Cleaning Tools Physical Space right arrow down arrow HVAC - Indoor Air Quality Sneeze Guard Request Process Safe Work Environment and Wellness Resources Contact Us right arrow down arrow Service Requests Join Our Team Announcements Finance right arrow down arrow Vice President for Finance Office of the Controller right arrow down arrow Accounting & Reporting Accounts Payable right arrow down arrow Vendor Form Information Purchasing & Non-Purchasing Information Asset Management Capital Finance Payroll Operations right arrow down arrow Employee Self Service (ESS) for Former Employees Payroll Calendars Stop Payment Request Form W-2 Information Office of the Treasurer right arrow down arrow Debt Management Investment Operations Tax Compliance Treasury Operations Budget Management Investment Office right arrow down arrow Endowment Impact Stories Contact Us right arrow down arrow Karl Scheer | Chief Investment Officer Sam Ekis | Investment Director Tony Caccomo | Senior Investment Analyst Doreen Clark | Investment Operations Administrator Investment Intern Program History Planning + Design + Construction right arrow down arrow Maps and Space Management right arrow down arrow Scheduling Events at the Reading Campus 2021 Intermediate Space Survey User Guide Sustainability right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Committees & Organizations Events & Programming Environmental Literacy Campus Initiatives right arrow down arrow Built Environment Energy Food Landscape Transportation Water Management Waste Diversion Purchasing Carbon Inventory & Climate Action Plan Links & Resources right arrow down arrow On-Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Tools & Guides Partners In The News Naming right arrow down arrow General Criteria Monetary Guidelines Design Standards Naming Committee Naming Request Form Vendor Information Purchasing right arrow down arrow Purchasing Contacts Information for Suppliers Contract Compliance Supplier Diversity Home » About UC » Admin & Finance » Business » Travel Resources » Concur Training » Concur FAQs Set Navigation title in component Business Core Systems Catalyst UC Flex Community Development Travel Resources Concur Travel and Expense Management Concur Training Concur FAQs Best Practice Guide Training Guides and Videos Concur SSO Login Travel Resources Contacts Policy and Travel Tools Travel Cancellation Guidance Concur Guest Account Login Concur FAQs Expense Reports right arrow down arrow I tried to submit a report with per diem and keep getting the error "This report could not be submitted. This report contains at least one itinerary with a single itinerary row. An itinerary is not valid until it has at least two rows. Please add another row to complete the itinerary." What does this error mean? The itinerary row refers to the travel allowance itinerary entered for meals per diem. There must be at least two rows. First itinerary row should be the first day of travel (unless traveling overnight) and the second row should contain dates/times for the return day of travel. For more assistance, please reference our Correcting the Itinerary One Row Error video which can guide you through the necessary correction. Are comments from Concur expense reports brought back to UCFlex for reporting purposes? (i.e. comment with PI name to report on for audit purposes and pulling audit documents requested.) Yes, if the comments or notes are entered into the Additional Information field on the expense line item detail (as opposed to in the header). Are comments reportable in Concur? Yes, comments entered into the Comments or Additional Information fields are reportable in Concur. Can multiple travel requests be added to one expense report? No. Each trip will require its own expense report. When should expenses be submitted? Monthly or as they come in? Ideally, once a month. Travel and non-travel expenses should be on separate expense reports. Can travel requests be done for approval of non-travel expenses? No, the approval for non-travel expenses should be handled outside of Concur. Can users export complete expense reports with receipts to an external office (grants)? Yes, there is an export functionality in Concur. What level of detail will users see in UCFlex vs Concur in terms of expenses? Regarding the G/L, users won't see the detail G/L for travel expenses but they will see the G/L for the P-card and non-travel expenses. If you do not see a 6-digit code after the G/L, it is a pure travel G/L that will roll up to either Domestic or International. All others will roll up based on the code you are seeing. Can you have a delegate for expense reports? Yes, delegates can prepare expense reports but the user for whom the report is being prepared must click the Submit button to send the report for approval (this acts as their signature). For guidance on adding a delegate, please reference the Updating your Expense Profile video. Will automated emails be sent to notify users that funds were deposited into their account? The Concur expense reports will be processed by UCFlex in an automatic nightly routine; the user will get an email once the system generates a payment document. Can a fund in the Expense Type dropdown section in Concur be deleted? This cannot be done independent of the fund being deleted in UCFlex. Once deleted in UCFlex the fund will then be removed from Concur. If someone is responsible for two cost centers, do they have to approve an expense report twice if the allocations hit both cost centers? No, they will only have to approve it once. Where are the G/Ls in Concur? The G/Ls are called expense types in Concur. The travel trip type is broken down between either Domestic or International. (e.g. "Office Supplies - 530201") If you have any questions regarding which expense type to select please contact the Controller's Office. What is the timeframe for the first notification I receive when I don't file my expense report? When will my direct manager receive one? You will receive an email if there are available expenses not submitted 30 days from the transaction date. You and your supervisor will receive an email notification 60 days from the transaction date if not submitted. Will the traveler be reimbursed in USD if they have expenses in other currencies? Yes, all reimbursements are in US dollars. Concur will automatically convert any out-of-pocket expenses from the foreign currency into USD. The user can correct the exchange rate if necessary. P-card transactions will be automatically converted by the bank and will enter Concur with a USD value. Where do the meal per diem amounts come from? The per diem values are provided by the US General Services Administration. The rate is automatically pulled into Concur for General Policy expense reports; for Guest Policy expense reports, the user must look up the rate on the US General Services Administration site and enter the reimbursement total manually. What backup documentation, if any, is needed for mileage reimbursement? Each instance of mileage claimed must be detailed in Concur by the user; dates and mileage must be entered and Concur will calculate the reimbursement amount. No receipt is needed. Can a cardholder post a transaction to a grant account if it is after the grant end date? Once the grant has been removed from the validation table that is imported into Concur nightly, no, the cardholder will not be able to post. Contact SRS for assistance with any questions or issues. How frequently will Validation Table updates occur? Validation data is uploaded from UCFlex to Concur daily and will be reflected in Concur the following day. Concur is one day behind UCFlex. I am traveling for UC, but a third party is paying for my trip. Do I still need to do a travel request even though I will not have an expense report? Yes, you need to make a travel request for duty of care purposes (enter $0 for the expense estimate). After the trip is over, close/inactivate the travel request to show that the trip is complete and there are no outstanding expenses. Do approvers have the ability to change expense types on the reports they are reviewing? Yes, approvers can make changes to the expense types. They do not need to be sent back to the user for correction. How are group meals handled when traveling? Select the "Entertainment" expense type. You will be prompted to add names of attendees. List the attendee names and attendee type. If you have a large list (>10), enter "See attached list" in the name field and attach a list document to the report with the receipt for the meal. How are daily per diems in multiple locations handled? Per diems are calculated automatically in Concur by city using the rates provided by the US General Services Administration. If an itinerary is used on the expense report with multiple segments (i.e. multiple cities), the system will calculate per diems based on the city listed in the itinerary for each date. What if a traveler spends more than the per diem on meals? The appropriate exception form should be completed and approved prior to taking the trip. Once approved, the form should be attached to the expense report within Concur. Are travelers allowed to be reimbursed for the actual meal expenses instead of per diem? University policy states per diems should be used. If a traveler wants to use actual meals in lieu of per diems, the appropriate exception form should be completed and approved prior to taking the trip. Once approved, the form should be attached to the expense report within Concur. How large of a receipt file will Concur allow? Concur accepts receipts in the form of .png, .jpg, .pdf, .html, .tif or .tiff for file uploads with a 5MB limit per file. If your document is larger than 5MB, you can divide it into two documents and upload both; Concur will automatically combine them. Do I need to attach additional receipt documentation to a P-card transaction in which the vendor has provided rich data? If the rich data provided by Visa does not contain significant information to list the purchase details, yes, please attach the proper receipt. How do I add an asset number to an expense? Some expense types require an asset number; if they do, an Asset Number field will appear among the expense details. To search for your asset number, enter "*[number]" (make sure to include the "*" at the beginning), and Concur will search the asset number lists. Click on the asset number to add it to the transaction. Travel right arrow down arrow Does a travel request have to be approved in order to book travel in Concur? Yes, there are two ways to book travel in Concur: 1. Bookings first; or 2. Request first. Use the Travel tab in Concur to book your flight(s), car rental, and/or hotel(s). The bookings are on hold until the travel request is approved. You will automatically be taken into the travel request process. Answer “Already booked via Concur, pending approval” in the “How will you book your travel?” field. Add any other expense estimates (e.g. parking, mileage, per diem, etc.) and then submit the travel request. The approver has a 48-hour window to review and approve. If the request is approved within the timeframe, the reservations are sent to AAA to complete the bookings. (If the request is not approved, the reserved bookings will be released, and the traveler must start the process over. Please work with your approver for timely review.) AAA will send an email confirming the reservation with your ticket number. Create a new travel request in Concur using the Request tab. Fill out the request and answer “Will book via Concur once my Request is approved” for the question “How will you book your travel?” Add any other expense estimates (e.g. parking, mileage, per diem, etc.) and then submit the travel request. Once the request is approved, return to the Request tab and you will see a Book link. Use the Book link to book your flight(s), car rental, and/or hotel(s). Once you complete your booking, it will be sent to AAA to issue the reservation immediately, without hold. AAA will send an email confirming the reservation with your ticket number. If a flight is booked in Concur, does the user still need to enter the details manually on the expense report? If booked using Concur or directly through AAA, the details are automatically added to Available Expenses under the Expense tab and can be added to an expense report. The user will have to manually enter the information if the flight was booked through another source. Is a travel request required for all travel? No, a travel request is only required for trips involving at least one overnight stay. Same-day trips, even if made repeatedly, do not require a travel request (e.g. an employee drives from Cincinnati to Columbus and back within a day, three days in a row for an event). Mileage and other travel expenses incurred on a same-day trip can be submitted on an expense report without an associated travel request. The following details should be listed in the Report Header when building the expense report: Trip Type = Domestic Report Purpose = Mileage, non-overnight or local "Are you traveling overnight and receiving per diem for meals?" = No What if I am the P-card holder but not the traveler? How is the expense report handled and whose profile is it built on? The P-card holder needs to submit the expense report under their profile. The P-card holder should select “On behalf of another user” in the Report Type field on the report header. Since the P-card holder is not the traveler, there will not be a travel request to attach to the report; instead, the P-card holder will enter the travel request number (which should have been created under the traveling user's profile) in the Request ID field of the expense line item detail. For guidance on creating and submitting the expense report, please see the My P-card paid for Another’s Travel Expense guide. Can I reserve a car rental for another traveler using my P-card? A P-card is not required for car rental reservations. A credit card in the renter's name will be required upon pick-up. Are students allowed to have P-cards? Can a department request a temporary P-card for a student who is traveling as an employee? P-Cards cannot be assigned to students. If traveling as a student employee, the student must be created as a guest user in Concur using the Concur Guest Profile/Vendor ID Request Form. For customized per diem requests, can the per diem amount be changed? (e.g. A traveler enters per diem, but the department uses a lower rate. Can the approver change the per diem rate before approving?) No, the approver does not have access to change the amount. Users may use the "Per Diem Reduction" expense type to reduce the amount reimbursed. The report approver is responsible for ensuring the claimed amount is less than the total per diem. For instructions on reducing per diem reimbursement, please review the Per Diem Reduction guide. Can a user create a travel request after the trip is complete? Yes. Travel expense reports cannot be submitted without an associated travel request, and a request will have to be approved before any expenses can be submitted, regardless of timing. However, this is outside of policy, and will be monitored through reporting. Are conference hotels with a special conference rate booked through the conference link or Concur? The conference link. Conference hotels cannot be booked through Concur. Can you modify a travel request after it's been submitted for approval? The user can recall the travel request and make corrections as long as it has not yet been approved. Can a traveler seek reimbursement for registration fees before the travel has occurred? Yes, the traveler may submit an expense report in advance of the trip so they do not have to wait for reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses. If someone needs to book a one-night stay at a hotel for a guest, do they need to create a travel request for approval? Yes, travel requests are required for both employees and guests of the university. If the supervisor approves a travel request, then notices something is wrong, can this be corrected? An approved travel request cannot be changed. The user will have to cancel the existing request and create a new one with the correct details, if necessary. Is there a section in Concur to add program award account numbers? (e.g. Delta Skymiles, etc.) Yes, in the user's profile. There is a Frequent-Traveler Programs section where the account details can be added. Can multiple travel requests be added to one expense report? No. Each trip will require its own expense report. Can a travel request be approved by someone in addition to the direct supervisor? The supervisor can forward the request to someone else for approval. The approver should use the Approve and Forward button located next to the Approve button. Enter the name of the desired approver in the User-Added Approver field, last name first. Please note that the desired approver must be a designated approver in Concur, otherwise their name will not be available for selection in the field. What should the user do on a travel request if they are not entitled to the total calculated per diem amount? The user can select the "Per Diem Reduction" expense type to reduce the total reimbursement amount calculated. For instructions on reducing per diem, please review the Per Diem Reduction guide. If a traveler needs to be reimbursed for mileage while traveling what expense type should they use? The "Personal Car Mileage" expense type. What backup documentation, if any, is needed for mileage reimbursement? Each instance of mileage claimed must be detailed in Concur by the user; dates and mileage must be entered and Concur will calculate the reimbursement amount. No receipt is needed. I am traveling for UC, but a third party is paying for my trip. Do I still need to do a travel request even though I will not have an expense report? Yes, you need to make a travel request for duty of care purposes (enter $0 for the expense estimate). After the trip is over, close/inactivate the travel request to show that the trip is complete and there are no outstanding expenses. Can travel requests be copied to use for a separate, similar trip? No. Travel requests must be uniquely created. How are group meals handled when traveling? Select the "Entertainment" expense type. You will be prompted to add names of attendees. List the attendee names and attendee type. If you have a large list (>10), enter "See attached list" in the name field and attach a list document to the report with the receipt for the meal. How are daily per diems in multiple locations handled? Per diems are calculated automatically in Concur by city using the rates provided by the US General Services Administration. If an itinerary is used on the expense report with multiple segments (i.e. multiple cities), the system will calculate per diems based on the city listed in the itinerary for each date. What if a traveler spends more than the per diem on meals? The traveler will have to personally absorb the amount spent over per diem, unless the appropriate exception form was completed and approved prior to taking the trip. The form should be attached to the expense report within Concur. Are travelers allowed them to be reimbursed for the actual meal expenses instead of per diem? University policy states per diems should be used. If a traveler wants to use actual meals in lieu of per diems, the appropriate exception form should be completed and approved prior to taking the trip. The form should be attached to the expense report within Concur. P-Card right arrow down arrow What if I am the P-card holder but not the traveler? How is the expense report handled and whose profile is it built on? The P-card holder needs to submit the expense report under their profile. The P-card holder should select “On behalf of another user” in the Report Type field on the report header. Since the P-card holder is not the traveler, there will not be a travel request to attach to the report; instead, the P-card holder will enter the travel request number (which should have been created under the traveling user's profile) in the Request ID field of the expense line item detail. For guidance on creating and submitting the expense report, please see the My P-card paid for Another’s Travel Expense guide. Can I reserve a car rental for another traveler using my P-card? A P-card is not required for car rental reservations. A credit card in the renter's name will be required upon pick-up. Are students allowed to have P-Cards? Can a department request a temporary P-card for a student who is traveling as an employee? P-Cards cannot be assigned to students. If traveling as a student employee, the student must be created as a guest user in Concur using the Concur Guest Profile/Vendor ID Request Form. Notifications are sent every time a P-card transaction posts in Concur as an available expense. Can this notification be turned off? Yes, a user can manage notifications in their Profile Settings under the Expense Preferences section. Under the "Send email when..." header, uncheck the box next to “New company card transactions arrive”. When should expenses be submitted? Monthly or as they come in? Ideally, once a month. Travel and non-travel expenses should be on separate expense reports. Can a cardholder post a transaction to a grant account if it is after the grant end date? Once the grant has been removed from the validation table that is imported into Concur nightly, no, the cardholder will not be able to post. Contact SRS for assistance with any questions or issues. User Profile/Settings right arrow down arrow Notifications are sent each time a P-card transaction posts in Concur as an available expense. Can this notification be turned off? Yes, a user can manage notifications in their Profile Settings under the Expense Preferences section. Under the "Send email when..." header, uncheck the box next to “New company card transactions arrive”. Can Concur users modify their Concur email notifications? Yes, and they can also have their delegates receive the email notifications instead. This process is managed in the user’s Profile Settings by going to the Request Preferences and/or Expense Preferences sections. Is there a section in Concur to add program award account numbers? (e.g. Delta Skymiles, etc.) Yes, here is a Frequent-Traveler Programs section where the account details can be added. What does the default accounting line on a user’s profile mean and where does it come from? It is sourced from UCFlex using the account line on which the user’s position is budgeted. If there is more than one account line on the record, the highest percentage account is used. If the budget is split equally, the first account line listed is used. Who are notification emails sent to regarding outstanding actions? Emails will be sent to all parties responsible: approvers, managers, the employee when a delegate creates an expense report on their behalf, etc. When setting up my profile, a middle name is required, but when I enter my middle name, it is not capitalized. My first and last names are capitalized. Will this cause an issue? No, it will not cause an issue. Concur e-mail notifications are going to junk mail instead of my inbox. How do I fix this? Right-click on the message in the junk folder, select Junk on the first drop-down, and then Not Junk on the second drop-down. You can also add Concur to your safe senders list. Can I opt out of entering my mobile phone number in my Concur profile? Yes, enter “work” in the Mobile Device field and then enter your work phone number in the Mobile Phone Number field. What are the roles within Concur? Users: All University employees automatically have access to Concur (except students, emeriti faculty, affiliated faculty and term adjuncts) Default Approver: Determined by one-to-one supervisor relationship in UCFlex Cost Object Approver: (COA): Determined by responsible person on UCFlex Cost Center record Delegate: Acts on behalf of another user Guests: Users that are visitors to the University, non-UC employees, affiliates, emeriti faculty, students and term adjuncts How do I get a guest profile created? Complete the Concur Guest Profile/Vendor ID Request Form. Are students allowed in the Concur system as a user? Yes, students are allowed access with appropriate business justification, such as student workers, co-op students, work study students, or graduate assistants working in a department as an employee of the university. A student cannot be a delegate for the purpose of approving travel requests or expense reports. Delegates right arrow down arrow Can a delegate create and submit travel requests when acting as another user? Yes. Can a delegate create and submit expense reports when acting as another user? Expense reports can be created and saved by a delegate but the user who owns the report must log in to Concur to submit the report. This represents the employee’s signature. The employee will be notified via email when a report is ready for them to submit, as indicated by the delegate. The only exception is if a P-card owner separated from UC before submitting all of their P-card transactions. A delegate will have to act as the user and submit the expense report of remaining P-card transactions. Contact the Travel Resources team to get the necessary submission permissions. Can a delegate use the Concur mobile app to submit requests or expense reports on behalf of another user? No. The delegate must act on behalf of the other user from a browser session. What happens if a supervisor changes between the time a travel request is submitted and the time of travel? Can additional approvers be added? If the change is permanent, the user’s Human Resources Office/Business Office should be notified so that they can get the position updated in UCFlex. That update will flow to Concur the next day. If the change is temporary, the interim supervisor can be added as a delegate for the true supervisor. Travel requests and expense report approvals can be forwarded to another user as long as they are set up as an approver in the Concur system. Can Concur users modify their Concur email notifications? Yes, and they can also have their delegates receive the email notifications instead. This process is managed in the user’s Profile Settings by going to Expense or Request Preferences. Does a person get an email notification when a user names them as a delegate? No, they do not receive an email. Are students allowed in the Concur system as a user? Yes, students are allowed access with appropriate business justification, such as student workers, co-op students, work study students, or graduate assistants working in a department as an employee of the university. A student cannot be a delegate for the purpose of approving travel requests or expense reports. Approvals right arrow down arrow The approver on a travel request or an expense report is wrong—how do we correct the approver? Travel requests go to the user's direct manager* for approval. This information feeds into Concur from UCFlex; if the wrong manager is listed in Concur, this means the information has not yet been updated in UCFlex. Please reach out to your HR contact and request that they update the Position to Position File to reflect the correct management. Once the Position to Position File is up to date, Concur will sync within 1 - 2 days. Expense reports go to at least one cost object approver** for review. The COA is responsible for at least one cost string; the cost string(s) used in the expense report's allocation(s) will determine the COA(s) on the expense report approval chain. A table of COAs is maintained by the Controller's Office in UCFlex. If Concur is reflecting the wrong COA(s), this table must be updated via the FI eForm for Change Cost Center/Fund Center in UCFlex. Once the COA table is up to date, Concur will sync within 1 - 2 days. *Exception: Concur guest profiles' requests cannot go to a direct manager, as the user was manually added and there is no direct management information. Travel requests for guest profiles go to the COA for approval, based on the request's cost string. **The direct manager will also be included on the approval chain only for travel expense reports that exceeded the travel request value by the tolerated amount. For example, the travel request is $1000, but the related expense report is $5000; the direct manager will be added to approve, in addition to the COA. If the expense report is $1000, only the COA will approve. If a direct manager or cost object approver is updated, will any travel requests or expense reports in the old approver's queue automatically re-route to the new approver? A travel request or expense report that is pending approval will not automatically reroute if the approver(s) are updated. The user will need to recall their request or report from the approval queue and resend it for approval so that the approval chain can update. Does an expense report go to the user's direct manager or to the cost center owner for review? The Cost Object Approver (COA) will review the expense. If another user should review based on department policy/practice, the COA will need to forward the report to that user. Note that the user to whom the report is forwarded would need to be set up as an approver in Concur. Is the grant approver at the department level or the central level? The grant approver is at department level. This information is sourced from the department admin field in the grant master data table. Can a travel request be approved by someone in addition to the direct manager? The manager can forward the request to someone else for approval. The approver should use the Approve and Forward button located next to the Approve button. Enter the name of the desired approver in the User-Added Approver field, last name first. Please note that the desired approver must be a designated approver in Concur, otherwise their name will not be available for selection in the field. What happens if a supervisor changes between the time a travel request is submitted and the time of travel? Can additional approvers be added? If the change is permanent, the user’s Human Resources office/Business office should be notified so that the new supervisor is changed in UCFlex. If the change is temporary, the interim supervisor can be added as a Delegate. Request and Expense Report approvals can be forwarded to another user as long as they are set up as an Approver in the Concur system. Will approvers receive a notification when a travel request or expense report is pending their approval? Yes, they will receive an e-mail notification and can approve on their computer or through the Concur mobile app. If someone is responsible for two cost centers, do they have to approve an expense report twice if the allocations hit both cost centers? No, they will only have to approve it once. Do approvers have the ability to change expense types on the reports they are reviewing? Yes, approvers can make changes to the expense types. They do not need to be sent back to the user for correction. Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top