Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Army ROTC Army ROTC right arrow down arrow Cadets & Campus Life right arrow down arrow Scholarship Clubs Branches Cyber Leadership Development UC Army Nursing Summer Training Cadre Leadership right arrow down arrow PMS-LTC Black SMI - MSG Castillo APMS - MAJ Cary APMS - MAJ Aguirre MSI - SFC Schooff MSI - SFC Isbell Program Coordinator APMS - CPT Dalton APMS - CPT Bryan Alumni Home » Campus Life » Army ROTC » Cadets & Campus Life » UC Army Nursing Set Navigation title in component Scholarship Clubs Branches Cyber Leadership Development UC Army Nursing Summer Training UC Army Nursing A Nursing Experience Unlike Any Other With real world experience you may not find in nursing school alone, nursing students who are also Army ROTC Cadets benefit from extensive one-on-one mentoring and training. You'll find out exactly what it takes to become a leader in your medical field. If you're considering an undergraduate nursing degree, enrolling in Army ROTC can enhance your leadership skills and critical-thinking abilities while providing financial support to help make your professional goals a reality. Being a Nurse in the Army provides you with opportunities not found in the civilian world. As an Army Nurse and Officer, you will have the respect of your peers and coworkers, as well as opportunities to train and serve in a variety of specialties. Army ROTC's Nurse Summer Training Program (NSTP) will give you the opportunity to truly fulfill the promises of your training after graduation. Coordinating and communicating patient care, you'll be in a clear position to succeed. Army ROTC And Undergraduate Nursing Nursing students who are also Army ROTC Cadets can benefit from unique hands-on nursing opportunities while receiving financial assistance for college. You will gain valuable leadership experience and management training that can benefit you in either a military or private-sector nursing career. Our Army ROTC program can offer you scholarships for undergraduate nursing students. Nurse Summer Training Program (NSTP) Nursing students who are also Army ROTC Cadets have an opportunity for a unique summer nursing experience. The paid, three-week Nurse Summer Training Program assigns Cadets to Army hospitals throughout the U.S. and Germany. The program introduces you to the Army Medical Department (AMEDD) and to the roles and responsibilities of an Army Nurse Corps Officer. Under the supervision of an experienced Army Nurse Corps Officer, you will obtain hands-on experience. Your one-on-one clinical experience will allow you to hone your clinical skills, develop your problem-solving techniques and become comfortable with developing your professional skills as a member of the U.S. Army Healthcare Team. University of Cincinnati\n2600 Clifton Ave\nCincinnati OH 45221\n513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati\n2600 Clifton Ave\nCincinnati OH 45221\n513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top