Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality & Resort Management Hospitality Culinary Sport & Leisure Apply Students Careers Research News & Events Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Contact Us Dean and Staff Hospitality & Resort Management Faculty Sport & Leisure Management Faculty Adjunct Faculty Take Action Apply to the KWS Program Academic Advising Career Advising Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality & Resort Management Contact Us Michael Hutchinson Michael Hutchinson Professor Phone (901) 678-2228 Email mdhtchns@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-0034 Office Fogelman Executive Center 449 Office Hours Contact for Appointment CURRICULUM VITAE Michael Hutchinson Faculty Profile Dr. Michael Hutchinson is a Professor of Sport Commerce and the Director of Undergraduate Programs for the Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management at the University of Memphis. Dr. Hutchinson earned a B.S. in Business Administration from Mississippi College, and a M.S. and Ph.D. in Sport Management from Texas A&M University. Throughout his academic tenure, Dr. Hutchinson has maintained a primary line of research in organizational behavior, specifically focusing on escalation and de-escalation behavior in organizational commitment decisions. His research has produced articles in several peer-reviewed journals including the Journal of Sport Management, Sport Management Review, and Sport Marketing Quarterly. To support this research, Dr. Hutchinson has served as principal investigator for several external grants, earning funding from such organizations as the Knight Foundation and North American Society for Sport Management. At the University of Memphis, Dr. Hutchinson's research has been presented at numerous academic conferences such as the Southern Management Association and North American Society for Sport Management, while also being recognized in several popular press media outlets including ESPN.com, ESPN Radio, and Newsday. In addition to research, Dr. Hutchinson has also contributed to the development of the degree programs in the Kemmons Wilson School at the University of Memphis. In his role as Director of Undergraduate Programs, Dr. Hutchinson primarily oversees the undergraduate Sport and Leisure Management degree program and is responsible for several innovative initiatives related to improving student success and advancing healthy growth of the degree program. To this end, Dr. Hutchinson has expanded the availability of prior learning assessment credit for students with degree-specific experience, implemented a program that blends competency-based credit and self-paced education, established a stand-alone online undergraduate degree, and generated a stronger degree presence on Memphis area community college campuses. Beyond program development, Dr. Hutchinson has attained comprehensive experience in academic instruction. As a full-time faculty member, Dr. Hutchinson has taught nine different courses in ground, online, and hybrid formats at the undergraduate and graduate levels. At the University of Memphis, his most commonly taught courses include Foundations of Sport and Leisure Management, Legal Aspects of Sport and Leisure Management, Administration of Athletics, and Research and Data Analysis in Sport Commerce. In addition to academic instruction, Dr. Hutchinson has fulfilled many different academic service roles within employing universities, surrounding communities, and the sport management discipline. These duties have ranged from degree-specific responsibilities in overseeing completion of senior capstone experience and directing student clubs to university membership on student success teams and committees to appointed positions within the discipline that include journal editorial board and conference section head selections. Prior to joining the University of Memphis, Dr. Hutchinson spent two years at Coastal Carolina University as an Assistant Professor of Recreation and Sport Management. Originally from the New Orleans, LA metro area, Dr. Hutchinson currently resides in Collierville, TN. He and his wife Crystal have three children: Avery, Graham, and Brooke. Education Ph.D., Texas A&M University: Sport Management M.S., Texas A&M University: Sport Management B.S., Mississippi College: Business Administration Teaching SLS 2105: Foundations of Sport and Leisure Management SLS 4205: Legal Aspects of Sport and Leisure Management SLS 4603: Administration of Athletics SPRT 7010: Research and Data Analysis in Sport Commerce SPRT 7603: Administration of Athletics SPRT 7650: Law for the Sport Manager Research Escalation of Commitment Theory Organizational Behavior Management Branding Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/16/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.