Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Chemistry About Programs People Research Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Undergraduate AdvisingBS, Chemistry MajorBS, Chemistry, Biochemistry conc.BS in Chemistry (ACS Approved)BS in Chemistry, Biochemistry conc.Chemistry MinorCourses and InformationPermit RequestsScholarships & AwardsStudent Members of ACS (SMACS)Research OpportunitiesNSF REU Program Graduate Ph.D. in Chemistry MS in Chemistry Courses FAQ Take Action Apply to the Department of Chemistry Contact us! Seminar Schedule Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Department of Chemistry Programs Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions What degrees does the program offer? Our program offers nonthesis Masters, thesis Masters, and PhD degrees. Does the program confer online degrees? Our program does not confer online degrees, though we are developing online certificate programs that may be offered in the coming years. Graduate courses are currently taught on ground. Does the program offer any financial support? Under most circumstances, our program offers graduate stipend and tuition support only for those candidates seeking a PhD degree. All stipend and tuition support offered to applicants is fully guaranteed for up to 5 years for those maintaining good standing in the program. Does the program offer a fee waiver? For each cycle a limited number of application fee waivers may be available for those applicants that demonstrate a) appropriate qualifications and b) financial need. To be considered for a fee waiver, fill out the pre-application form at (Include link). Is there a GRE requirement to be admitted in the program? The GRE is currently not required for admission applications. If you have a GRE score you are welcome to include it your application materials. Our program does not have a specific GPA cutoff. We evaluate every applicants’ materials as a whole. We do find letters of recommendation to be particularly useful when they speak to an applicant’s previous experience and their potential as an independent scientist. What are the requirements for admission? All applicants to our program must meet all University of Memphis Graduate School requirements. There are no exceptions. Can I send my application materials for pre-evaluation? No pre-evaluations of applicant materials will be made. Only fully completed WedAdmit applications will be considered. Is there a deadline for application? Our program has deadlines for full consideration of applications: a. For Fall admits, WebAdmit applications received before January 1st (International applicants) and February 1st (Domestic applicants) will be given full consideration. b. For Spring admits, WebAdmit applications received before July 1st (International and Domestic applicants) will be given full consideration. Processing cannot be guaranteed for applications received after the deadline. When should I expect to hear back about my application? Decisions will be announced on set days: a. For Fall admits, offers, declinations, and waitlist decisions will be made on March 1st. b. For Spring admits, offers, declinations, and waitlist decisions will be made on August 1st. How can I learn more about the program? Opportunities to speak with our graduate coordinator via virtual meetings can be scheduled by sending a request to gradchem@memphis.edu and including: a) four combinations of days and times that you can be available for a 30 min discussion and b) your time zone. Can campus visits be arranged? Campus visits for admitted students will be considered by sending a request to gradchem@memphis.edu. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/31/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.