Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research DEI Initiatives Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate PhD in Clinical Psychology About the ProgramWelcoming DiversityClinical FacultyChild ClinicalClinical Health PsychologyPsychotherapy ResearchAdmissionClinical Student HandbookClinical Program AnnouncementsClinical Alumni News PhD in Experimental Psychology About the ProgramExperimental FacultyCognitiveBehavioral NeuroscienceRequired CoursesAdmissionFinancial Support PhD in School Psychology About the Programs Program Overview School Faculty Historical Statement Financial Support Program Philosophy and Training Model Program Competencies School Psychology Doctoral Handbook School Psychology Association Child & Family Studies Research Group MA/Ed.S. in School Psychology About the ProgramsProgram OverviewSchool FacultyM.A./Ed.S. Program GoalsHistorical StatementFinancial SupportSchool Psychology MA/ED.S. HandbookSchool Psychology AssociationWhat is a School Psychologist?Child & Family Studies Research Group Masters in General Psychology About the ProgramProgram GoalsRequired CoursesAdmission Apply to Psychology Graduate Programs Instructions for ApplyingApply Now Graduate Student Coordinating Committee About GSCCGSCC Concerns/ComplaintsGSCC Travel Funding Graduate Program Forms and Resources Clinical Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data School Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data Take Action Psychology Advanced Degrees Academic Advising & Resource Center (AARC) The Psychological Services Center Teaching Take-Out Facebook Home Department of Psychology Graduate School Psychology Programs - M.S.Ph.D. Philosophy and Taning Model School Psychology Program - M.S./Ph.D. Philosophy and Training Model Since the foundation of American public education, a societal emphasis has been placed on schools to provide a better future for children and adolescents through a life-long educative process. In their professional roles, school psychologists are sensitive to the needs of a culturally diverse community, value the importance of children and adolescents to the future of society, and advocate on the behalf of children. As an integral part of human services available to children, adolescents, adults, and families, school psychologists function across multiple settings with a focus on educational institutions. School psychologists provide varied services, such as psychoeducational assessment, consultation, counseling and other interventions, inservice education, administrative services, research, and evaluation. The primary distinction that separates school psychology from other psychological specialties is the combining of education and psychology in the study and delivery of services to children, adolescents, families, and learners of all ages. The additional focus of education to this area of psychology stems from the assumption that schools play a primary nurturing and socializing role in the lives of all individuals. School psychologists focus on the natural ecologies of children, adolescents, families, learners, and persons involved in schooling as well as the process of schooling in multiple settings. (See School Psychology) Because they receive training in both education and psychology, school psychologists are in a unique position to coordinate educational, psychological, and behavioral health services to learners across the life span. The curriculum of the program is an integrated course of study in areas of psychology and education (in addition to specialized school psychology courses) that contributes to the preparation of school psychologists. The philosophy of the school psychology programs at The University of Memphis reflects an ecological, evidence-based model that focuses on the multiple systems in which children exist. This perspective recognizes the complex interaction of person variables within and across multiple systems. This philosophy also acknowledges that the manner in which problems are defined influences the subsequent use of assessment and intervention strategies. The doctoral program model reflects the scientist–practitioner approach that balances knowledge and competencies in both research and practice (Frank, 1984; Raimy, 1950). Students draw upon the scientific literature to make decisions regarding practice with a focus on evidence-based services. Students are also instructed regarding basic program evaluation techniques and treatment monitoring and evaluation in order to determine the effectiveness of their assessments and interventions. Students are taught to use a scientific problem-solving model to make clinical decisions by operationalizing problems, identifying appropriate data collection techniques, analyzing and interpreting data collected, and utilizing the findings to determine the target variables for intervention. Students are also trained in design and statistical techniques to produce scientific knowledge for the practice of school psychology. The doctoral program seeks to prepare school psychologists whose contributions will be through research and academic careers, future trainers of school psychologists, and future leaders in the field of school psychology. The research preparation for students is based on a “scientist as producer” model. Clinically, students are also trained to develop skills as case managers, clinicians in comprehensive school and mental health settings, and supervisors of others who provide educational and psychological services to children, adolescents, and families. The doctoral program also seeks to produce graduates who have specialized skills designed to match their interests and perceptions of training needs. The overall goal of the doctoral program is that students will complete the requirements of the program, obtain credentialing for school-based practice, become licensed for independent practice as psychologists and health service providers, and contribute to the field through service, research, and teaching. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/9/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.