Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information Home Alumni Stories Summer Sports with the UWAA See More Stories Prev Overview Next Get Together Summer Sports with the UWAA Cheer on the home team with your Husky community! Check out the Storm in their first season at the new Climate Pledge Arena, wave your rally scarf for the Sounders, enjoy the crack of the bat with the Mariners — or all three! Gather your pack and head out for these three in-person sports events and make it a summer to remember. Buy your game tickets through the links below to save on admission, sit with your fellow Huskies AND support UWAA student scholarships! Each game ticket sold includes a $5 donation to the UWAA General Scholarship Fund. UW Night with the Seattle Storm Wed. June 29, 2022 | 7 p.m. Climate Pledge Arena Cheer with your fellow Huskies as four-time WNBA Champions Seattle Storm take on former UW phenom Kelsey Plum, ’19, and the Las Vegas Aces! Celebrate the Storm’s inaugural season in Climate Pledge Arena. Don’t forget to swing by the UWAA table for free Husky swag. Baseline: $50 Loge: $40 Buy Tickets UW Night at the Sounders Sat. July 23, 2022 | 7 p.m. Lumen Field Scarves up, Huskies! With the 2022 CCL Championship under their belts, the Sounders are headed for another deep run in the MLS playoffs. Join your UW community and cheer on UW’s own Cristian Roldan as the two-time MLS Cup winners take on the Colorado Rapids at Lumen Field. UWAA members: Stop by our table in the north concourse to receive a free Husky branded scarf. Sections 147 & 149: $38 Buy Tickets UW Night at the Mariners Fri. Aug. 5, 2022 | Husky Social Begins 5:40 p.m. | Game Time 7:10 p.m. T-Mobile Park Bring your purple pride to T-Mobile Park and cheer on the home team as they take on Shohei Ohtani, Mike Trout and the Los Angeles Angels — followed by a fireworks extravaganza! It’s the perfect opportunity to get together with your pack during the “Dawg days” of summer. Buy your game tickets through our link to score a limited edition co-branded UW/Mariners hat. Join us on the Rooftop Boardwalk for food and fun at a classic Husky Social before the game! Already have your game tickets? You can still meet up with your fellow Huskies while enjoying the view. One lucky guest will walk away with a cool UW Solo stove — perfect for outdoor summer fun. Best prices for UWAA and UWRA members. Learn More Game ticket prices do not include taxes and service fees. See More Stories Prev Overview Next Share this page HUSKY FOR LIFE The UWAA Community is Blooming! Explore what UWAA members make possible for students and our community. UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA