Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Loewenberg College of Nursing About Us Programs & Admissions Student Life Faculty & Staff Research & Initiatives News & Events Giving & Support Scrub Hub Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs & Admissions BSN ProgramAdmissions Accelerated BSN ProgramAdmissions RN to BSN Program Admissions Request Info MSN ProgramAdmissions Post MSN ProgramAdmissions PhD ProgramAdmissions Pre-Admit Lambuth FAQs Applied: What's Next? Take Action Schedule a tour Apply now Give now Contact Us Find us on Social Media InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Loewenberg College of Nursing Programs and Admissions RN to BSN Admissions Apply to the RN-to-BSN Program How to Apply Step 1: Complete the UofM Global application and select Transfer or Readmit for application type. 1: Apply to UofM > Step 2: Select "Nursing RN-to-BSN" as your anticipated plan of study. List all colleges at which you have taken (or are taking) courses and earned college credit. Step 3: Certify and submit application. Deadlines to Apply RN to BSN admissions are processed on a continuing basis. Entry Semester Application Opens Application Deadline Fall Continuous August 1 Spring Continuous January 1 Summer Continuous June 1 RN-to-BSN Admission Requirements An earned Associate Degree in Nursing or Diploma from an institution accredited through the Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN). Be admitted to the University of Memphis as a degree-seeking undergraduate student. Have an active, unencumbered RN license, or be eligible for licensure. Complete the UofM Global application for the RN to BSN program. Minimum cumulative college GPA of 2.5. If transferring form another accredited nursing program, a letter of good academic standing from the Dean/Director of the previous nursing program, is required. Prerequisite Courses: Anatomy and Physiology I w/Lab Anatomy and Physiology II w/Lab Microbiology w/Lab English Comp. I English Comp. II Intro to Sociology or General Psychology Nutrition Any of the following Maths can be taken as the pre-requisite: MATH 1420 - Foundations of Mathematics MATH 1530 - Prob/Statistics/Non Calculus* MATH 1710 - College Algebra MATH 1730 - Pre-Calculus MATH 1830 - Elementary Calculus MATH 1910 - Calculus I *MATH 1530 (Statistics) can satisfy the prerequisite and general education requirement. MATH 1530 will be required once admitted into the program if not already complete. Prerequisite science courses completed later than seven (7) years of LCON admission may be accepted with validation from current healthcare employer. General Education Requirements In order to earn a BSN, students must complete an upper division elective (3000-4000 level course) and the general education requirements for the University of Memphis. Many students are able to transfer most of the general education courses after completing an Associate’s Degree. However, the required credits may be completed within the four-year period. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/16/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.