Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Learning Resources » Business Writing Materials » Memo Writing Tips Set Navigation title in component Note-Taking and Test Strategies The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Memo Writing Tips Whether you have to create a memo for an actual position, or for your class, co-op, or internship, it's important to know how to draft an effecient memo. Read the tips below and then visit the Academic Writing Center to learn more about how to draft a memo! Composing a Memo Like most business correspondence, memos need to be short and direct, easy to read and understand. The first step in writing a memo is thinking carefully about what you want to say and how to say it clearly and briefly. This brainstorming can be surprisingly time-consuming, but is necessary to write a memo that can be read quickly and easily. Expect to revise your memo like you would a school paper: the first draft you write will probably not be clear and concise. Consider giving it to someone else to read to see if what you’ve written makes sense to them. Memo Subjects: Choose a representative phrase that immediately tells the reader what the memo will be about. Formatting a Memo Memos have one-inch margins around the page and are on plain paper (not stationery). Use a professional font and black color. All lines of the memo begin at the left margin, except the MEMO line, which can be centered. The body of the memo is single-spaced, with two spaces between paragraphs. Second-page headings: If your memo is more than 1 page long, use a subsequent page header that includes who the Memo is addressed to, the page number, and the date. The sender usually signs the Memo next to the FROM line, using initials, first name, or complete name. Don’t add a greeting between the memo heading and body. Some organizations have special memo forms or pre-made templates. If not, use the “MEMO” (or “MEMORANDUM”) label and heading to format your memo. Memo Tone Memos inform the reader of new information and often instruct them on how to act based on that information. In this context, you need to be specific and detailed without including unnecessary (i.e. time-wasting or confusing) information and without insulting your reader’s intelligence. Pay attention to your tone through word choice, the verbs you use (commands vs. declarative verbs), and your sentence structure (complex vs. simple). To make appropriate decisions about the content you include and the style and tone you use, you need to think carefully about who your audience is, what they already know, and what you want them to do with the information you’re giving them. Because memos usually circulate “in-house,” they can have a more informal tone than correspondence with outsiders. Remember, however, that what counts as “formal” or “informal” is defined in terms of each organization’s culture, so pay attention to your audience and context. Memos Sent as Emails A lot of business communication once circulated as print memos is now circulated via email. For professional emails that work as memos—that inform and instruct the reader to do something—use a format similar to a printed memo, remembering to use direct, clear language and specific directions. Email programs will fill in the To/From/Date lines and prompt you for the Subject, so you don’t need to use the full memo heading. Unlike in printed memos, however, use a greeting to begin the body of the email memo. Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top