Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Center for Children’s Environmental Health Home About Research Education & Training People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Trainees Key Partners Staff Past Trainees News Site Navigation Home About Vision & Mission Contact Career Opportunites Research Interventions to Reduce Chemical Exposures Health Effects of Environmental Exposures Modifiable Determinants of Environmental Exposures Molecular Epidemiology of Environmental Exposures Education & Training CCEH Seminar Series EH Courses at Brown People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Trainees Key Partners Staff Past Trainees News Core Faculty To search Brown's comprehensive faculty directory by research area, please visit vivo.brown.edu. Joseph Braun Director of CCEH, Associate Professor of Epidemiology [email protected] Joseph Braun, Ph.D., is Associate Professor of Epidemiology at the Brown School of Public Health and Director of Brown's Center for Children’s Environmental Health. His research focuses on the determinants and health risks of chemicals found in food, food packaging, water, and consumer products. He is particularly interested in how early life exposure to these chemicals may impact behavioral, cognitive, and cardiometabilic health in children and adolescents. Dr. Braun teaches courses on environmental epidemiology and grant writing. He has provided regulators and policy makers with critical information about the health effects and determinants of exposure to bisphenol A, triclosan, phthalates, and perfluoroalkyl substances. Nan Li Investigator in Epidemiology [email protected] Nan Li, Ph.D., is an Investigator in the Department of Epidemiology at the Brown University School of Public Health. Her research focuses on examining the impact of early-life chemical exposure on children’s neurodevelopment, cardiometabolic health, and eating behaviors. Her recent research includes investigating the associations of gestational and childhood phthalate exposure with children’s cognitive abilities and problem behaviors. She also has a background in cancer epidemiology and is interested in studying how life-style risk factors (such as diet) are associated with cancer risk and survival. People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Trainees Key Partners Staff Past Trainees Center for Children’s Environmental Health Center for Children’s Environmental Health Brown University Box G-S121-2 121 South Main Street Room 213 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5397 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top