Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Pediatrics Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Hepatitis Outbreak Among Kids: What Parents Should Know Health authorities around the world are investigating rare cases of children with severe hepatitis of unknown cause. Mercedes Martinez, MD, explains. Topic Campus News What to do while waiting for COVID vaccines for kids under 5 It’s still important to protect your children and the people around them to prevent hospitalization and COVID’s worst outcomes. Topic Public Health How Parents Can Manage the Baby Formula Shortage Columbia pediatrician Lauren Levine shares her insights on resources to try, ways to plan, and what never to do. How to teach a child to swallow a pill The advanced form of drinking required to swallow a pill is a skill to acquire like any other. Topic General Medicine Latest News COVID-19 Vaccination for Kids Under 12: Q&A with Pediatrician Mara Minguez November 5, 2021 Columbia pediatrician Mara Minguez, MD, answers common questions about the COVID vaccine now available for children between 5 and 11 years old. Topic COVID-19 Dancer Emma Buckland Moves Gracefully Through Life with Type I Diabetes November 5, 2021 When Emma was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes at age 10, she worried she would have to give up dance. But her team at Columbia's Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center has kept her on her toes. Topic Diabetes Columbia University Selected as Rare Disease Center of Excellence November 4, 2021 Columbia University Irving Medical Center has been selected by the National Organization for Rare Disorders to join a national network aimed at improving patient care for people with rare diseases. Topic Campus News The Pandemic Broke Kids' Sleep Schedules. Here's How to Fix Them. October 22, 2021 Avoiding naps and screens before bedtime can help kids get on a healthy sleep schedule, says Carin Lamm, MD, director of Columbia’s Pediatric Sleep Disorders Center. Topic Campus News Exposure to Childhood Adversity Linked to Early Mortality October 14, 2021 Researchers at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health and Harvard found that childhood adversity is associated with elevated risk for chronic disease, including heart disease and cancer. Topic Public Health Bullying and Children: What Parents Need to Know October 13, 2021 October is National Bullying Prevention Month and Anne Marie Albano, PhD, an expert in child and adolescent psychology, explains how parents can recognize bullying and help their children. Topic Mental Health Ali Mencin Appointed Director of Pediatric Gastroenterology at VP&S October 11, 2021 Ali Mencin, MD, has been named director of the Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition in the Department of Pediatrics at Columbia University. Topic Campus News Are Kids at Greater Risk of an Asthma Attack This Year? October 4, 2021 Columbia pediatric pulmonologist Stephanie Lovinsky-Desir, MD, says this fall could be more dangerous for kids with asthma. Topic Pulmonary Answering Parents' Top Back-to-School Questions Amid the Delta Variant August 23, 2021 Melissa Stockwell, Columbia pediatrician (and mom), addresses questions about COVID-19, the Delta variant, and the return to in-person schooling. Topic COVID-19 Easing Back-to-School Anxiety in the COVID Era August 17, 2021 Columbia psychologist Alyssa Ames-Sikora, PhD, offers advice for parents with kids who are anxious about returning to the classroom this fall. Topic Psychiatry Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top