COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Engineering Technology - Engineering Technology Management, Major MajorEngineering Technology - Engineering Technology Management All Programs College of Engineering Engineering Technology A Bachelor of Science in engineering technology (BSET) from Wichita State will give you knowledge and practical skills in engineering and technology fundamentals, engineering principles, instrumentation, mathematics, science, and applied design. You’ll have access to top-notch labs and technology—plus, applied learning and research opportunities on and off campus. Learn how engineering technology - engineering technology management is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Engineering technology students have the opportunity to apply their knowledge to real industry problems in the Robotics and Automation Lab, part of WSU's National Institute for Aviation Research (NIAR). Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Engineering, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Students teach entry-level coding to next generation Computer science major Zane Storlie developed a three-unit curriculum teaching Scratch, an entry-level coding program, to elementary school students. Zane taught Scratch to fellow students, and together they're doing their part to fill the coder pipeline in the Wichita area. Curriculum The BSET—engineering technology management concentration—will prepare you for high-paying management positions in technology-based environments. You’ll learn to manage people and resources, set budgets, build teams, and more. In addition to making you workforce ready, you’ll also be well equipped to pursue an advanced engineering degree. The program is offered in a traditional format and a hybrid online format. View the curriculum Careers WSU’s vast industry connections—and experience-based learning for every major—gives engineering technology management students the chance to grow their professional network, build a resume and earn a paycheck, all while still in school, leading to dream careers in diverse fields. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Industrial Engineering Engineering Technology - Civil Engineering Technology Engineering Technology - Facilities Management Engineering Technology - Mechatronics Technology 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©