Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Cancer Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Brain Cancer Breast Cancer Cervical Cancer Colon Cancer Immunotherapy Prostate Cancer Radiation Skin Cancer Top Stories Lung Cancer Screening Program Launches at Columbia and NewYork-Presbyterian The program brings together physicians and nurse practitioners from multiple disciplines to provide care for smokers and ex-smokers who are at high risk for lung cancer and other complications. Topic Campus News Let’s Talk About Sex… and Cancer Sexual dysfunction is common among female cancer patients but infrequently addressed. Columbia oncologist Christine Chin is working to change that. Wendy Chung on Genetics and Cancer Columbia geneticist Wendy Chung reflects on the progress made in cancer genetics and discusses the next frontier of using genetic information to design personalized cancer prevention strategies. Clinical Trial Finds Combination Therapy Has Promise for Gastric Adenocarcinoma Columbia cancer researchers estimate that 60% of patients in a phase 2 clinical trial will have no sign of their cancer two years after treatment with combination therapy. Latest News Contagious Cancer in Shellfish is Spreading Across the Atlantic December 2, 2019 By learning how contagious cancer spreads among shellfish, scientists hope to better understand how cancer metastasizes in people. Addressing Cancer Disparities in Northern Manhattan November 19, 2019 Researchers at Columbia are tackling cancer disparities in northern Manhattan and surrounding areas through the National Cancer Institute’s network of community-based research programs. Bringing Precision Medicine to Veterans November 11, 2019 Columbia oncologists are bringing their latest techniques in precision medicine to veterans with advanced prostate cancer. Preventing Breast Cancer: 5 Questions for Katherine Crew October 23, 2019 Katherine Crew, MD, directs the Clinical Breast Cancer Prevention Program and cares for patients with breast cancer and women at high risk at Columbia University Irving Medical Center/NYP. Topic Breast Cancer Breast Cancer: Latest Findings from Columbia October 18, 2019 Exercise may lower breast cancer risk in all women and young survivors underutilize fertility-preservation services: These are among recent breast cancer findings from Columbia scientists. The Future of Radiation Oncology: Q&A with Lisa Kachnic, MD October 11, 2019 Lisa Kachnic, MD, the new chair of radiation oncology at Columbia University Irving Medical Center, has helped pioneer techniques that deliver radiation therapy to cancer patients with more precision. Topic Radiation Pancreatic Cancer: Less Toxic, More Enduring Drug May Improve Therapy August 8, 2019 A new drug that penetrates the protective barrier around pancreatic cancers and accumulates in malignant cells may improve current chemotherapy, a study in mice suggests. Bacteria Programmed to Kill Cancer July 3, 2019 Researchers in Columbia's medical and engineering schools have edited a strain of non-pathogenic bacteria to colonize solid tumors in mice and safely deliver potent immunotherapies. In Ovarian Cancer Care, Focus on High-Volume Centers Could Come at a Cost June 19, 2019 Barring ovarian cancer surgery at low-volume hospitals could limit access to care for many rural and underserved patients, a new study has found. Topic Obstetrics-Gynecology Smarter Brain Cancer Trial Comes to Columbia April 25, 2019 At Columbia, patients with brain cancer will be able to participate in a new type of clinical trial that promises to speed up the development of better drugs for glioblastoma. Topic Brain Cancer Pages first previous … 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top