Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Molecular and Cellular Biology (BS) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Medicine Department(s) Biomedical Sciences In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Admission Requirements Students who declare this major come in on a "Pending" status. In order for students to transition out of "Pending" status, students must earn a "C" or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: BSC 2010C, CHM 2045C, CHM 2046, CHM 2210; and earn a "B" or better in BSC 3403C Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students should complete the General Education Program before transferring within the Florida College System or State University System. Grades below "C" in Common Program Prerequisites, Core Requirements and Restricted Electives are not accepted. Students in undergraduate majors within the College of Medicine are expected to consistently make good progress towards their degrees. Therefore, the COM/BSBS Progress Policy mandates that undergraduate students meet the requirements of the policy. Below are the specific requirements of the Progress Policy: Students with 3 withdrawal (W) grades will be placed in a probationary status. Students with 5 withdrawal (W) grades will meet with an advisor from the Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center for selection of a different major. Medical withdrawals are not included in this withdrawal component. Students who earned 5 low grades (C-, D, F, W, NC, U) will be placed on a probationary status and will meet with a peer mentor for major advising. Students who earn more than 8 low grades (C-, D, F, W, NC, U), will meet with an advisor from Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center for selection of a different major. Students with 2 unsuccessful attempts of the same UCF course will be placed on a probationary status and will meet with a peer mentor for major advising. Students with 3 unsuccessful attempts of the same UCF course will meet with an advisor from the Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center for selection of a different major. Students in this program must maintain a minimum science GPA of 3.0 to maintain status in the program. Students who are unable to maintain such GPA, the student will have to revert back into the Biomedical Sciences B.S. Students should consult with a BSBS academic advisor at least once per semester. While many students discover that they have interests in varied disciplines at the University of Central Florida, they are not permitted to pursue two majors within the College of Medicine. College of Medicine students may declare a major and a minor within the college, or pursue a second major or minor in another academic college at UCF. Students are encouraged to meet with an academic advisor to discuss these opportunities. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Agricultural Research Director Anatomy Professor Bacteriology Professor Biochemistry Professor Biochemistry Technician Biology Laboratory Assistant Bryologist Cancer Researcher Embryologist Geochemical Manager Gerontologist Histologist Histopathologist Neuroscientist Ocean Program Administrator Osteologist Phytopathologist Serologist Wildlife Technician Zoology Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Medicine programs Bachelors Molecular and Cellular Biology (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Admission Requirements Students who declare this major come in on a "Pending" status. In order for students to transition out of "Pending" status, students must earn a "C" or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: BSC 2010C, CHM 2045C, CHM 2046, CHM 2210; and earn a "B" or better in BSC 3403C Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students should complete the General Education Program before transferring within the Florida College System or State University System. Grades below "C" in Common Program Prerequisites, Core Requirements and Restricted Electives are not accepted. Students in undergraduate majors within the College of Medicine are expected to consistently make good progress towards their degrees. Therefore, the COM/BSBS Progress Policy mandates that undergraduate students meet the requirements of the policy. Below are the specific requirements of the Progress Policy: Students with 3 withdrawal (W) grades will be placed in a probationary status. Students with 5 withdrawal (W) grades will meet with an advisor from the Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center for selection of a different major. Medical withdrawals are not included in this withdrawal component. Students who earned 5 low grades (C-, D, F, W, NC, U) will be placed on a probationary status and will meet with a peer mentor for major advising. Students who earn more than 8 low grades (C-, D, F, W, NC, U), will meet with an advisor from Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center for selection of a different major. Students with 2 unsuccessful attempts of the same UCF course will be placed on a probationary status and will meet with a peer mentor for major advising. Students with 3 unsuccessful attempts of the same UCF course will meet with an advisor from the Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center for selection of a different major. Students in this program must maintain a minimum science GPA of 3.0 to maintain status in the program. Students who are unable to maintain such GPA, the student will have to revert back into the Biomedical Sciences B.S. Students should consult with a BSBS academic advisor at least once per semester. While many students discover that they have interests in varied disciplines at the University of Central Florida, they are not permitted to pursue two majors within the College of Medicine. College of Medicine students may declare a major and a minor within the college, or pursue a second major or minor in another academic college at UCF. Students are encouraged to meet with an academic advisor to discuss these opportunities. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 15 Total Credits No Rules Math and Statistics 7 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: STA2023 - Statistical Methods I (3) MAC2311C - Calculus with Analytic Geometry I (4) GEP Course: MAC 2311C Chemistry 8 Total Credits Complete the following: CHM2210 - Organic Chemistry I (3) CHM2211 - Organic Chemistry II (3) CHM2211L - Organic Laboratory Techniques I (2) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 36 - 40 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: PCB4529C - Experimental Molecular Cell Biology (4) BSC3403C - Quantitative Biological Methods (4) PCB3023 - Molecular Cell Biology (3) PCB3522 - Molecular Biology I (3) PCB3233L - Immunology Laboratory (1) Complete at least 1 of the following: PCB3063 - Genetics (3) PCB4663 - Human Genetics (3) Required: Complete the following: PCB4280 - Molecular Immunology (3) PCB4524 - Molecular Biology II (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: BCH4024 - Medical Biochemistry (4) BCH4053 - Biochemistry I (3) Restricted Electives 9 - 12 Total Credits Complete all of the following Students must choose three (3)restricted electives from the list below. At least one (1) of these restricted elective courses must have a laboratory component. As an alternative to one of these restricted electives, students can take part in a GEAR course, the PURE program, the PILOT course, or carry out an HIM thesis. Any one of these courses or programs will substitute for one (1) restricted elective course with a laboratory component. Additional restricted electives can be taken as approved by the associate director. Complete at least 3 of the following: PCB4028 - Molecular and Cellular Pharmacology (3) PCB4234 - Cancer Biology (3) BSC4434 - Biomedical Informatics: Sequence Analysis (3) MCB4224 - Molecular Biology of Diseases (3) MCB4721C - Methods in Biotechnology (4) PCB4663 - Human Genetics (3) PCB4174 - Foundation of Bio-Imaging Science (3) PCB3703C - Human Physiology (4) PCB4521 - Tissue Engineering (3) PCB4264 - Stem Cell Biology (3) PCB4284 - Immunobiology (3) PCB4813 - Molecular Aspects of Obesity, Diabetes & Metabolism (3) ZOO3744 - Neurobiology (3) PCB4805 - Endocrinology (3) PCB4832 - Cellular and Molecular Basis of Brain Functions (3) PCB4833 - Advanced Human Physiology (3) PCB4843 - Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience (3) ZOO4742 - Advanced Neurobiology (3) ZOO4753C - Human Histology (4) Grand Total Credits: 51 - 55 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida