Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Campus Climate Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search News Reporting system How to Report Process FAQ Incidents Resources Policies Climate Survey 2017 Project History and Press Climate Study Documents Climate Study Teams Implementation Efforts New Initiatives FAQ Pre-Survey FAQ Data Campus Climate Survey In October of 2017, a university-wide survey was conducted to provide a snapshot of ISU community members' perceptions of the living, learning and working environment at Iowa State. In May of 2018, findings from the study were presented in two public forums. Presentation slides (includes additional slides not shown in forums) Forum videos available by request The results provide a basis for developing policies and initiatives to enhance and improve the campus climate in alignment with ISU's strategic plan and principles of community. Executive summary (PDF, 23 pages) Full report (PDF, 561 pages) Printed copy available at Parks Library circulation desk President Wendy Wintersteen has charged four implementation teams with moving forward on actionable information from the survey results that will address the experiences of: Undergraduate Students Graduate Students and Postdoctoral Scholars Faculty Merit and Professional & Scientific Employees Next: Project History and Press What's next... Each implementation team will meet during Summer 2018 to discuss strategies and coordinate activities. conduct forums in Fall 2018 to solicit input and stakeholder feedback regarding findings. prioritize what findings they will focus on and develop implementation plans. update President Wintersteen and stakeholders with progress toward those priorities. President Wintersteen will communicate Fall 2018 progress to the campus. Strategic Plan: Goal 4 Continue to enhance and cultivate the ISU Experience where faculty, staff, students and visitors are safe and feel welcomed, supported, included and valued by the university and each other. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Campus Climate 2680 Beardshear Hall Ames, IA 50011-2103 vpdeioffice@iastate.edu 515-294-8840 phone Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information