HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation FACILITIES Facilities Homepage Fike Recreation Center Featuring Swann Fitness Center Douthit Hills Fitness Center Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex Policies and Procedures Facility Hours Facility Counts Floor Plan FITNESS AND WELLNESS Group Fitness F45 Small Group Training Fitness Assessments Personal Training Wellness Zone INTRAMURAL SPORTS CORE CORE Homepage Register for a Trip Rent Outdoor Equipment Develop Your Skills Request a Custom Trip Apply for a Job Explore Spring Break Trips Explore Winter Break Trips Explore Trips for Incoming Students Contact Us CLUB SPORTS Club Sports Homepage Club Officer Resources Visiting Team Resources Reservations and Rentals Event & Scheduling policies are currently being updated. Please confirm policies and questions you may have with the Assistant Director of Scheduling prior to your reservation. Standard requests must be submitted at least 2 weeks in advance of the actual reservation date. Special event requests must be submitted at least 4 weeks in advance if set-up and/or additional staffing is needed. Requests are not approved until a written confirmation from the scheduling team has been received. Payment of Invoices Groups/organizations will be invoiced for all space usage billing rates and other charges (including staffing, set-up rates, custodial services, security, damage and/or repair costs as applicable as well as any charges resulting from damages to property or equipment), with payment due prior to each event. Late payments will affect eligibility for future reservations. Payments may be made with check or card at the Welcome Center desk in Fike Recreation Center, or by mailing a check addressed to Clemson University to 206 Fike Recreation Center, Clemson, SC 29634-4015. Spaces and times of reservations are agreed upon prior to each occurrence; discounts will not be awarded post-event for spaces or time not utilized. The cost of items, space, and time utilized by the group that were not originally reserved will be applied to an invoice The over or under usage of Campus Recreation resources from the original agreement may alter groups' abilities to make reservations in the future. Cancellations The Assistant Director of Scheduling is to be informed via email of any reservation cancellation prior to 72 hours from the start of the reservation. There is no charge for cancellation of a reservation prior to this time, however reservations not canceled in this time period will result in the responsible group being charged the full reservation rate, even if the space was initially given to the group for free. Failing to arrive to their reservation without a confirmed cancellation may affect a group's potential to make future reservations. Decisions to keep or release an outdoor reservation space due to the potential of rain must be made 24 hours in advance of the start of the reservation. This is covered more in the Weather section below. Forms Facility/Field Reservation Request Form To be used for reserving Campus Recreation fields and facilities for an event. Summer Camp Reservation Form To be used if you are requesting space for a summer camp. Additional Information Rules and Regulations for use of Facilities/Fields Questions regarding facility/field reservations may be directed to scheduling@g.clemson.edu. CU Food Waivers Information A food waiver must be sought from the Clemson Dining Service (as the sole source provider under contract for providing food services on campus) by any group that plans to serve or sell food and beverages, or to have food and beverages catered as part of its scheduled program/event. Questions about Reservations? Please email scheduling@g.clemson.edu. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster