Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media A Connector of People and Ideas: Nolan Altvater, EPA'22 Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram News & Events A Connector of People and Ideas: Nolan Altvater, EPA'22 The Intellectual Contribution Award recipient for Education Policy and Analysis reflects on their time at HGSE and looks toward the future. By News editor May 13, 2022 Read more about the Intellectual Contribution Award winners and other stories about Commencement 2022. Nolan Altvater Photo: Jill Anderson Nolan Altvater Photo: Jill Anderson The Intellectual Contribution Award recognizes graduating Ed.M. students (one from each Ed.M. program) whose dedication to scholarship enhanced HGSE’s academic community and positively affected fellow students. Nolan Altvater, an advocate for inclusive and meaningful Indigenous education policy, will be honored with the Intellectual Contribution Award for Education Policy and Analysis (EPA) Program during HGSE's Convocation exercises on May 25. Senior Lecturer Carrie Conaway and Professor Andrew Ho, faculty directors of EPA, comment on Altvater’s selection: “The faculty of the Education Policy and Analysis Program are pleased to select Nolan Altvater as the 2022 recipient of the EPA Intellectual Contribution Award. Several faculty testified to Nolan's contributions to the education of their peers, including their work convening a memorable panel on indigenous education policy last November. One faculty member described Nolan speaking, ‘with beauty and extreme seriousness about issues related to indigenous people and policy and education.’ The faculty were also thrilled to see so many students nominate Nolan. One fellow student said that Nolan, ‘really pushed me to think about how I consider inclusion and representation of Indigenous culture in program design and curriculum development,’ and another that their perspective, ‘has been missing from many conversations and perspectives,’ ‘often filling a hole that is missing here in our HGSE faculty.’ Congratulations, Nolan!” We spoke to Altvater about their time at HGSE, their future plans, and how the pandemic has changed the education landscape: What were the goals that brought you to the Ed School — and have those goals changed? The Indigneous history, particularly the Passamaquoddy history, at both HGSE and Harvard overall drew me to apply to the institution. Education for Indigenous people has been historically used for assimilation and eradication of our bodies and knowledge systems. This is found in the history of Harvard, as seen with the 1655 Charter whose mission was to grant "the education of the English & Indian Youth of this Country in knowledge: and godliness” and had built an “Indian College” right in the yard. Pedagogically, the institution practiced lyceum instruction, which meant that only the sons of leaders could be educated, as well as assimilative methods where the first book translated into indigenous language was the bible, hoping that students would bring these western religious teachings back to their communities to “improve” them. About three centuries later after the Indian college had failed, a Passamaquoddy ancestor of mine, Wayne Newell, would come to attend the school and work on developing a written system for our language and helped organize what would become the Harvard University Native American Program (HUNAP). Later on, my mentor Darren Ranco (Penobscot) would receive his Ph.D in anthropology here, and then my other mentor, Rebecca Sockbeson (Penobscot), would complete the same program that I am graduating from. Wayne, Darren, and Rebecca have all created many improvements for Wabanaki tribal nations and scholarship. From this, we can start to see a shift in the use of education from assimilation to self-determination, and a practice of intellectual traditions being practiced here at Harvard. I wanted to continue these practices, with the goal that future Wabanaki generations will do so as well in order to continue the push towards intellectual self-determination and the sovereignty of our communities. What are your post-HGSE plans? A few months ago, I was offered the curator of education position at the Abbe Museum, which is a museum in what is now Bar Harbor, Maine, that is dedicated to Wabanaki history, culture, and contemporary arts and lifestyles. I decided to accept this position and will actually be starting prior to graduation. Beyond that, I have a few filming projects with Wabanaki communities planned that I am excited for, and much needed bonding time to make up with my cat. "We can start to see a shift in the use of education from assimilation to self-determination, and a practice of intellectual traditions being practiced... . I wanted to continue these practices, with the goal that future Wabanaki generations will do so as well in order to continue the push towards intellectual self-determination and the sovereignty of our communities." Is there any professor or class that significantly shaped your experience at the Ed School? There are two that come to mind, Aaliyah El-Amin and Gretchen Brion-Meisels have both given me the capacity to stay connected with my Wabanaki communities through research and praxis. Both offer critical perspectives to research and allow Indingeous paradigms to be engaged within the course. Beyond academics, they are both genuinely loving and supporting people who prioritize their students’ feedback and dialogue, all while creating a collaborative environment that nurtures the mind and body. Also, SNACKS!! What is something that you learned this year that you will take with you throughout your career in education? Honestly, as the program is intensive and short duration of nine months, you don’t have much capacity to reflect, which is needed to learn. I look forward to how my experiences here will unfold into meaning as I continue my learning, but if I had to choose something now, it would be based on my experience of being able to work with the Santa Clara Pueblo community in New Mexico through the Nation Building course. Their approach to education through prioritizing local control and culturally relevant curriculum for the thriving of their people was very inspiring and insightful. I was able to see how this is strategically done through a policy perspective, which I am hoping to bring this experience back to the Wabanaki communities who are working towards the same initiatives. How has the pandemic shifted your views of education? The pandemic has proven to the world that taking the initiative to completely change education can take place. What if we put this same amount of energy and funding into other capacities to change education? We are so afraid of losing “progress” that experimentation and feeling unprepared is considered a bad thing. But, did not the pandemic, and all its uncertainty, bring new approaches to education? What if we put this type of effort into social justice initiatives in this area? Despite your busy schedule, you always make time for … Connecting with the land through photography and thinking. Intellectual Contribution Award: next profile Related News: People-First Practice: Turner Cooper, L&T'22 The Intellectual Contribution Award recipient for Learning and Teaching reflects on his time at HGSE and looks toward the future. A Practitioner Perspective: Katie Wiseman, L&L'22 The Intellectual Contribution Award recipient for Language and Literacy reflects on her time at HGSE and looks toward the future. More In: Intellectual Contribution Award commencement Commencement 2022 In this section News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media A Connector of People and Ideas: Nolan Altvater, EPA'22 Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice