Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. University of Cincinnati names graduate school dean May 10, 2022 Rose Marie Ward will serve as vice provost and dean of the Graduate School CAHS partners to host an educational event dedicated to... May 10, 2022 Students, faculty and staff in the College of Allied Health Sciences bring together experts to bring awareness to transgender health. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. University of Cincinnati names graduate school dean May 10, 2022 Rose Marie Ward will serve as vice provost and dean of the Graduate School CAHS partners to host an educational event dedicated to... May 10, 2022 Students, faculty and staff in the College of Allied Health Sciences bring together experts to bring awareness to transgender health. The Power of Vision: 5 Years of Momentum April 28, 2022 The last five years rank among UC’s best. Take a look at some of our recent accomplishments and proudest moments since President G. Pinto began his term as UC’s 30th President. UC to celebrate record-breaking class at spring commencement April 25, 2022 The University of Cincinnati will recognize a record 7,080 graduates at its spring commencement during four ceremonies on Friday and Saturday at Fifth Third Arena. CAHS alumna now in private practice helping people with eating... April 25, 2022 University of Cincinnati Nutrition & Dietetics alumna Sara Jernigan uses her education to help clients with eating disorders. President Pinto celebrates talented UC community during State of... April 15, 2022 Faculty, staff and students from UC gathered online and inside Probasco Auditorium for President Neville G. Pinto's April 14 State of the University Address. UC, Kroger form research collaboration to improve health outcomes April 4, 2022 The University of Cincinnati, UC Health, Cincinnati Children’s and Kroger are partnering to help make health care more accessible to consumers in a first-of-its kind research study designed to improve health outcomes through retail-based dietary interventions. UC alumna adds Dancing with the Stars to her resume April 1, 2022 UC physical therapy alumna, Kelli Barton Schneider, shares her experience on tour with Dancing with the Stars. UC Online partners with City of Cincinnati to advance employee... March 14, 2022 The University of Cincinnati and City of Cincinnati partner to offer city employees, their spouses, and dependents access to UC’s online degree programs at a reduced cost in the form of scholarships. Hoxworth celebrates March with exclusive gift for donors March 4, 2022 Hoxworth Blood Center is celebrating the month of March with exclusive 3-in-1 tumbler/koozies for all donors AARP: How to improve your pandemic posture February 18, 2022 Working in the pandemic over the last two years has meant developing a space to work at home for most of us. An article published by AARP takes a look at some potential problems that can crop up working at home in the way of pandemic posture habits. Susan Kotowski, PhD, of the Department of Rehabilitation, Exercise and Nutrition Sciences in the UC College of Allied Health Sciences, is cited as an expert for the story. UC grad heads to Super Bowl as Bengals assistant head athletic... February 8, 2022 Dan Willen, the assistant head athletic trainer for the AFC Champion Cincinnati Bengals, graduated from UC in 1998 with a degree in health promotion with an emphasis on athletic training. That program would be part of the formation a year later of the College of Allied Health Sciences. One of the reasons Dan, who went to high school in Dayton, OH, chose UC is because his dad graduated from the aerospace engineering program at UC in 1968 and did his co-op at NASA during the height of the manned missions to the moon. Feb. 22 Life of the Mind lecture to examine emotional wellbeing,... January 25, 2022 Event: February 22, 2022 3:00 PM Jennifer Wright-Berryman, associate professor of social work in the College of Allied Health Sciences, will speak on “BEING A CAMPUS COMMUNITY THAT CARES: Emotional Wellbeing, Mental Health, and Suicide Prevention at the University of Cincinnati.” UC pre-med student makes the most of college life opportunities January 14, 2022 University of Cincinnati student Ekow Forson, a fourth-year neurobiology and health sciences major, has made the most of his time at UC by getting involved in Greek life, student clubs and work as a teaching assistant. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top