Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Close Home Chronicle Art & Culture Athletics & Recreation Campus & Community Humanities Faith & Religion Science, Tech & Health Nation, World & Society Economics BC Events Let there be light Veterans Remembrance Pops Off the Heights 2020 Pops Off the Heights 2020 Pops Off the Heights wins CASE gold award Pops hits a high note Archives BC News Archive Agora Portal Search News Archive Resources University Communications About BC Facts & Figures Policies BC Social BC Bookmarks Blog BC News University Communications 3 Lake Street Brighton Campus 617-552-3350 Tweets by BostonCollege BC Chronicle Read the latest issue of the University's newspaper for faculty and staff. Find the archives here. BC Bookmarks A blog highlighting campus literary events and publications by members of the University community. Close Humanities BC News > Humanities The liberal arts advantage Learn about the Boston College approach Read More Latest Editors Picks Audio/Video Photos Humanities / History BC history prof named to AAAS May 21, 2022 Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson is elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Humanities / Philosophy & Ethics Ecological hospitality May 18, 2022 "We're not on course for a safe world," former President of Ireland and climate justice advocate Mary Robinson tells 'Hosting Earth' held conference at BC. Humanities / History BC historian James O'Toole delivers "last lecture" April 18, 2022 The Clough Millennium Professor Emeritus offered insights from his career and his forthcoming book on the history of Boston College. Humanities / Communication BC professor receives Fulbright Fellowship in Medicine April 12, 2022 Professor of Communication Ashley Duggan will serve as a senior scholar with Ireland's Royal College of Surgeons. Humanities / History "As a historian, I want to hear it all" March 26, 2022 BC Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson talks about her White House interview with President Joe Biden. Humanities / History BC historian interviews President Joe Biden March 05, 2022 Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson talked with the president about his views on American democracy in the 21st century. Humanities / History New AAAS Fellow February 15, 2022 History Professor Conevery Valencius is honored by the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Humanities / Literature New season for Lowell Humanities Series February 01, 2022 BC welcomes a a diverse lineup of dynamic speakers. Humanities / History Dual honors for BC historian November 21, 2021 A leading national commentator on American history and politics, Heather Cox Richardson received a pair of awards this fall. Humanities / Philosophy & Ethics Fr. Bernauer tribute November 14, 2021 Essays honor Kraft Family Professor Emeritus James Bernauer, S.J., former director of the Center for Christian-Jewish Learning. View More Humanities / History "As a historian, I want to hear it all" March 26, 2022 BC Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson talks about her White House interview with President Joe Biden. Humanities / Literature Say the word August 23, 2017 A look at the Boston College SLAM! scene. Humanities / Literature Virtually 'Ulysses' June 16, 2017 Joycestick, BC students' VR game adaptation of the James Joyce novel, is introduced in Dublin, Toronto, Singapore. Humanities / Literature Undergraduate poetry festival April 24, 2017 Student poets from some 20 Boston area colleges and universities, including Sherry Hsiao '17, will recite their work at BC. Humanities / History Best book prize in environmental history April 08, 2017 A catastrophic event in medieval China holds lessons for our relationship with the environment today, says historian Ling Zhang. Humanities / History "As a historian, I want to hear it all" March 26, 2022 BC Professor of History Heather Cox Richardson talks about her White House interview with President Joe Biden. Humanities / Literature Virtually 'Ulysses' June 16, 2017 Joycestick, BC students' VR game adaptation of the James Joyce novel, is introduced in Dublin, Toronto, Singapore. Humanities / History 'Freak Out and Carry On' June 15, 2017 BC historian Heather Cox Richardson co-hosts a new WBUR podcast on politics and history. Humanities / Literature Joycestick: gaming 'Ulysses' January 17, 2017 A BC team is creating an immersive, virtual reality computer game adaptation of the James Joyce novel. Humanities / History Aleppo a war crime? January 10, 2017 Associate Professor of History Devin Pendas weighs in on NECN's 'The Take.' Humanities / History Details in the discards December 04, 2017 The latest student-curated exhibit in the 'Making History Public' series offers an unusual look back at immigrant life in Boston. Humanities / Literature Virtually 'Ulysses' June 16, 2017 Joycestick, BC students' VR game adaptation of the James Joyce novel, is introduced in Dublin, Toronto, Singapore. Humanities / Literature Gaming 'Ulysses' March 17, 2017 The Associated Press features a BC course project to develop a VR game based on James Joyce's famous novel. Humanities / Philosophy & Ethics Pathfinders July 10, 2015 The students of a new philosophy course, “Self-Knowledge and Discernment: The Experience of Pilgrimage,” walk Spain’s Camino de Santiago. Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College