Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund American Rescue Plan Act (ARP): Emergency Financial Aid Grants to Students (as of 2.16.22) Public Reporting Requirements: JTS acknowledges that it has signed and returned to the U. S. Department of Education the required Certification and Agreement. Per Section 2003(a)(1), JTS certifies that it intends to use no less than 50 percent of the funds received to provide Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students. The total amount of funds that JTS has received from the Department pursuant to the institution’s Certification and Agreement for Emergency Financial Aid Grants to Students is $136,821. JTS decided to use its full Institutional portion of ARP funds ($136,820) for Emergency Financial Aid Grants to Students. The total amount of Emergency Financial Aid Grants distributed to JTS students under Section 2003(a)(1) of ARP as of the posting date: As of February 16, 2022, JTS has distributed all of its ARP funding, both the Student and Institutional portions, totalling $273,641, to students. The estimated total number of students at JTS eligible to receive Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students under ARP: 361. The total number of JTS students who have received an Emergency Financial Aid Grant to students under ARP as of the posting date: As of February 16, 2022, JTS has distributed Emergency Financial Aid Grants to 79 students. JTS determined which students received Emergency Financial Aid Grants and how much they received under Section 2003(a)(1) of ARP as follows: Spring 2021 graduates and continuing students with account balances were contacted and given an opportunity to request a grant in the amount of their balance, which they could choose to have applied to their balance. JTS used an application process to disburse the remaining amount of ARP funds in Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students as follows: Students were notified about the ARP funds and were invited to submit an application for a grant. The amount of the grant was determined by the student’s FAFSA EFC (if applicable) in combination with their total expenses related to their cost of attendance and/or Coronavirus-related emergency costs. Students were notified about the application for ARP funds and were instructed that all currently enrolled students could apply for an Emergency Financial Aid Grant. They were further notified that students with exceptional financial need would be considered first; they were given a list of eligible expenses; and they were given an opportunity to request that the grant be credited directly to their JTS account. American Rescue Plan Act (ARP): Emergency Financial Aid Grants to Students Public Reporting Requirements: JTS acknowledges that it has signed and returned to the U. S. Department of Education the required Certification and Agreement. Per Section 2003(a)(1), JTS certifies that it intends to use no less than 50 percent of the funds received to provide Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students. The total amount of funds that JTS has received from the Department pursuant to the institution’s Certification and Agreement for Emergency Financial Aid Grants to Students is $136,821. The total amount of Emergency Financial Aid Grants distributed to JTS students under Section 2003(a)(1) of ARP as of the posting date: As of October 7, 2021, JTS has distributed $38,857 to students. The estimated total number of students at JTS eligible to receive Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students under ARP: 370. The total number of JTS students who have received an Emergency Financial Aid Grant to students under ARP as of the posting date: As of October 7, 2021, JTS has distributed Emergency Financial Aid Grants to 8 students. JTS determined which students received Emergency Financial Aid Grants and how much they received under Section 2003(a)(1) of ARP as follows: Spring 2021 graduates and continuing students with account balances were contacted and given an opportunity to request a grant in the amount of their balance, which they could choose to have applied to their balance. JTS will determine its method for distributing the remaining ARP funds in Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students at a later date. Students with account balances were informed of grant eligibility requirements and were instructed on their right to choose to have their grant applied to their balance or disbursed to them directly. Information will be provided to students about applying for grants from the remaining ARP funds at a later date. Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSAA): Emergency Financial Aid Grants to Students Public Reporting Requirements: JTS acknowledges that it has signed and returned to the U. S. Department of Education the required Certification and Agreement. Per Section 314(a)(1), JTS certifies that it intends to provide the same amount in Emergency Financial Aid Grants to Students as it was required to provide under the CARES Act Student Aid Portion award. The total amount of funds that JTS has received from the Department pursuant to the institution’s Certification and Agreement for Emergency Financial Aid Grants to Students is $59,337. The total amount of Emergency Financial Aid Grants distributed to JTS students under Section 314(a)(1) of CRRSAA as of the posting date: As of October 7, 2021, JTS has distributed $59,337 to students. The estimated total number of students at JTS eligible to participate in programs under Section 484 in Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 and thus eligible to receive Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students under CRRSAA: 165. The total number of JTS students who have received an Emergency Financial Aid Grant to students under CRRSAA: 44. JTS determined which students received Emergency Financial Aid Grants and how much they received under Section 314(a)(1) of CRRSAA as follows: Eligible students submited a grant application, and the amount of the grant awarded was determined by the student’s FAFSA EFC in combination with their total expenses related to their cost of attendance and/or Coronavirus-related emergency costs. Students were informed of grant eligibility requirements and had an opportunity to apply for a grant if they met those requirements. Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act: Emergency Financial Aid Grants to Students Public Reporting Requirements: JTS acknowledges that it has signed and returned to the U. S. Department of Education the required Certification and Agreement. JTS certifies that it intends to use no less than 50 percent of the funds received under Section 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act to provide Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students. The total amount of funds that JTS has received from the Department pursuant to the institution’s Certification and Agreement [for] Emergency Financial Aid Grants to Students is $59,337. The total amount of Emergency Financial Aid Grants distributed to JTS students under Section 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act as of the posting date: As of August 3, 2020, JTS has distributed $59,337 to students. The estimated total number of students at JTS eligible to participate in programs under Section 484 in Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 and thus eligible to receive Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students under Section 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act: 165. The total number of JTS students who have received an Emergency Financial Aid Grant to students under Section 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act: 56. JTS will determine which students receive Emergency Financial Aid Grants and how much they receive under Section 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act as follows: Eligible students will submit a grant application, and the amount of the grant awarded will be determined by the student’s FAFSA EFC in combination with their total expenses related to the disruption of campus operations. Students will be informed of grant eligibility requirements and will have an opportunity to apply for a grant if they meet those requirements. Applicants will be notified if they receive a grant. Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund: Q3 2020 Q1 2021 Q2 2021 Q3 2021 Q4 2021 Q1 2022 SHARE THIS PAGE RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message