We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × Accessibility Cal Poly Pomona has a long-standing commitment to make its programs, services, and activities accessible to the university community. Cal Poly Pomona embraces this commitment in all areas, including information technology, and strives to become 100% accessible in its digital environment, which includes websites, web applications, and online content. To the best of its ability, Cal Poly Pomona purchases, develops, and repairs digital resources to comply with all federal and state accessibility guidelines, including Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 794d). Cal Poly Pomona is also guided by the California State University (CSU) Accessible Technology initiative (ATI) and corresponding memorandums and Executive Order 1111. The university has implemented the following standards for web accessibility: World Wide Web Consortium Web Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 Level AA and the Web Accessibility Initiative Accessible Rich Internet Applications Suite (WAI-ARIA) 1.0 techniques for web content. Should you find an accessibility issue, a document that you cannot read or need an alternative accessible format, please contact us at accessibility@cpp.edu, and include the information related to your concern (e.g., URL/location, issue experienced, etc.). You may also contact the IT Service Desk at 909-869-6776 during business hours. To submit a grievance with Cal Poly Pomona under Section 504 and Title II, you may contact the Office of Equity, Inclusion, and Compliance via their website at http://www.cpp.edu/~officeofequity, via email at: officeofequity@cpp.edu, or via voice at 909-869-4646. Suggestions and feedback related to accessibility are also welcomed at accessibility@cpp.edu. Below are additional references and resources related to accessibility at Cal Poly Pomona: CPP ATI: www.cpp.edu/accessibility Disability Resource Center: http://www.cpp.edu/~drc Office of Equity and Inclusion: http://www.cpp.edu/~officeofequity Viewers for commonly-used documents are available at: https://www.cpp.edu/file-viewers.shtml 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers