Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information CUIMC Update Sharing news for the faculty, staff, and trainees of Columbia University Irving Medical Center. View previous issues of CUIMC Update. Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories CUIMC Update - June 1, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Neighborhood Corner Co-Named Coogan's Way Coogan's bar and restaurant, the now-closed beloved fixture in Washington Heights, was celebrated with the co-naming of the corner of Broadway and 169th Street as Coogan's Way. Topic Campus News Hepatitis Outbreak Among Kids: What Parents Should Know Health authorities around the world are investigating rare cases of children with severe hepatitis of unknown cause. Mercedes Martinez, MD, explains. Topic Pediatrics 3 Myths About Celiac Disease The nutritionists at Columbia University’s Celiac Disease Center have heard every myth about celiac disease, even from their own patients. Topic Campus News Latest News Serving the Underserved: Q&A with Dentist George Jenkins February 2, 2022 Columbia’s College of Dental Medicine has a long history of providing dental care to the Northern Manhattan community. Here’s why that matters. Topic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Can Nutrient Supplements Prevent Glaucoma? January 31, 2022 Columbia research has found that simple nutrient supplements, vitamin B3 and pyruvate, may prevent glaucoma. Topic Ophthalmology CUIMC Update - Jan. 31, 2022 January 31, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Promising ALS Therapy Moves Closer to Clinic January 24, 2022 Based on Columbia research, an experimental drug for a rare type of ALS is being tested in a phase 3 clinical trial after a new study found that the drug lowered levels of a toxic protein. Topic Neurology CUIMC Update - Jan. 24, 2022 January 24, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Is Intermittent Fasting Sustainable?   January 19, 2022 A new study at Columbia University Irving Medical Center seeks volunteers to determine if intermittent fasting leads to long-term weight loss and health benefits.      Topic Research To Stop Blood Cancer, Target the Bone January 19, 2022 New Columbia research suggests that targeting neighboring bone cells may be a better strategy than targeting malignant stem cells to treat acute myeloid leukemia. Topic Campus News Free 60-Day Citi Bike Memberships for CUIMC Employees January 18, 2022 CUIMC health care employees and other essential staff are eligible for a free 60-day Citi Bike membership. Enrollment must be completed by Feb. 7. Topic Campus News CUIMC Update - Jan. 18, 2022 January 18, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Columbia Community Supports MLK Day of Service January 18, 2022 Members of Columbia’s medical center gave back to their community in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. by volunteering at a food bank in Washington Heights on Monday. Topic Campus News Pages first previous … 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top