Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites Home Our Divisions Areas of Interest Research About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Community Engagement Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Community Engagement Our Divisions Our Divisions Alumni Relations KU AHEC Community Relations Continuing Education & Professional Development Rural Health Project ECHO Center for Telemedicine and Telehealth Project Eagle Outreach Aircraft Areas of Interest Areas of Interest Pipeline Programs KU Medical Center Educational Experience Kansas Health Care Jobs Loan Forgiveness and Repayment Sunflower Pediatric Clinical Trials Research Extension Research About About Our Focus Areas Sponsored Awards Staff and Leadership Contact Us Through education, research and health care, we provide community-based services to each of the 105 counties throughout Kansas. Partnership Request Focus Areas Contact Us We know the power of partnerships is astounding. Our faculty, staff and students collaborate with providers, community leaders, educators and organizations across Kansas and around the world to improve health and prepare future health care professionals. Explore our divisions to learn about outreach services, workforce development programs, visitor opportunities and how you can get involved. Our Divisions Our Focus Areas Health Technology We leverage the latest technologies to extend health care, health professional education, support services and other activities across the state of Kansas. Learn more Community-Based Research We support a wide range of community research projects, especially in rural Kansas, where recruitment of participants and data collection can be challenging. Learn more Workforce Preparation Our initiatives inspire young people to enter health care careers and provide continuing education opportunities for current health care professionals. Learn more Community Practice Development We support hospitals and clinics across Kansas through programs focused on education, mentoring, recruitment and an array of other services. Learn more Continuing Education Courses KU Medical Center is Kansas' leading provider of accredited professional medical education. Continuing Education & Professional Development offers programs designed to be evidence-based and immediately relevant to practitioners. View Calendar Community Engagement University of Kansas Medical Center Institute for Community Engagement Mailstop 3013 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Kansas City, KS 66160 913-588-5258 outreach@kumc.edu Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.