Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / About / Welcome to Penn Welcome to Penn Penn has a proud tradition of translating knowledge into social-minded action that dates back to our founder Benjamin Franklin. This tradition of active pragmatism, articulated in Franklin’s maxim “well-done is better than well-said,” lives today through inclusive policies, innovative work, and the impactful engagement of our faculty, students, and staff. Inclusion Scholarship and Learning Academic life at Penn is unparalleled, with 134 countries and 50 U.S. states. Consistently ranked among the top 10 universities in the country, Penn enrolls 10,001 undergraduate students and welcomes an additional 16,746 students to our world-renowned graduate and professional schools. Penn’s award-winning educators and scholars encourage students to pursue inquiry and discovery, follow their passions, and address the world’s most challenging problems through an interdisciplinary approach. Access and Affordability Financial need is not a barrier to a Penn education. Penn admits undergraduate students without regard to need, and offers all-grant financial aid packages, substituting grants for loans. Since 2004, the University has awarded more than $2.6 billion in undergraduate aid to more than 24,000 students. Forty-six percent of undergraduate students received grant-based financial aid in 2020-21, with an average package of $56,095. Dynamic and Diverse Community Penn is committed to creating a community of students, scholars, and staff that reflects the diversity of the world we live in. Toward this end, the University established its Action Plan for Faculty Diversity and Excellence in 2011, which has led to, in 2021, a 63 percent increase in underrepresented faculty and a 36 percent increase in female faculty. Nearly half of Penn’s undergraduates self-identify as students of color, more than half are women, 13 percent are among the first in their families to attend college, and 13 percent are international. The spectrum of valuable perspectives and ensuing dialogue are key contributors to educational excellence and an inclusive, dynamic campus environment. Innovation Integrated Knowledge Solving today’s complex problems requires knowledge that crosses traditional boundaries. True to our roots, Penn encourages both intellectual and practical pursuits, and has attracted some of the most eminent interdisciplinary scholars and teachers working today through our Penn Integrates Knowledge program. Research Discovery Penn is one of the world’s most powerful research and teaching institutions, with a research budget of nearly $1.1 billion and more than 5,000 active faculty members. The scale and interdisciplinary character of research and teaching sets Penn apart, and our highly ranked Perelman School of Medicine is one of the top recipients of NIH funding in the country. $1.1 billion Research budget Impact Beautiful Urban Campus Expansive college greens and recreational spaces. Landmark architecture. Twelve schools connected on a single campus. Penn’s geographical unity is unique among Ivy League schools, fostering our integrated approach to education, scholarship, and research. Since 2006, Penn’s campus master plan, Penn Connects, has added 6 million square feet of new construction, and reinvested in 2.7 million square feet of renovated space while also adding more than 30 acres of new open space. These capital achievements represent a combined public and private investment of $3.8 billion. Penn Connects 3.0 will add an additional 3 million square feet of space to campus. Community Engagement At Penn, civic engagement is an integral part of campus life. Situated near the heart of Philadelphia, the first World Heritage City in the U.S., Penn is a national leader in academically based community service through our Netter Center for Community Partnerships. Penn continues to deepen its longstanding commitment to the local community in numerous ways, with 13,000 University students, faculty, and staff participating in more than 300 volunteer and community service projects each year. Thank you for visiting our home on the web. I invite you to explore the people and programs of Penn. Penn Virtual Tour From West Philadelphia to the comfort of your own home, we invite you to explore Penn through a virtual tour of our historic campus. Get a glimpse inside our state-of-the-art classrooms, hear from current students and faculty, and catch live performances by members of our community as you stroll down Locust Walk. Penn Virtual Tour Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top