Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU Center for Marine Training & Safety Search Marine Training & Safety Professional Mariner Training CMTS Course Approval Procedures Select Web or PeopleWebPeople Search Center for Marine Training & Safety Marine Training & Safety Professional Mariner Training CMTS Course Approval Procedures Marine Training & Safety ‹ Carousel Control LeftCarousel Control Right › Center for Marine Training & Safety Center for Marine Training and Safety (CMTS) CMTS is a joint operation of Featuring Programs in Professional Mariner Education (TAMUG/TEEX) Welcome to Texas A&M University's Continuing and Professional Development Department operated as the Center for Marine Training and Safety. CMTS offers a wide array of courses for the amateur and professional mariner. Our professional mariner training is offered in partnership with the Texas A&M Engineering Extension Services. Our goal is to offer our students professional development and training to build and maintain your skills in all phases of your profession and to offer amateur mariners professional skills. CMTS programs are designed to combine industry knowledge with hands-on practical experience with the latest equipment to meet your needs. Our instructors are highly qualified and certified professionals who bring years of real world experience to the education environment. Courses are offered at our Galveston Campuses on Pelican Island and Offatts Bayou as well as our College Station Campus at the Brayton Fire Training Field. Working with well known industry training partners our continuing and professional education experience is second to none. We invite you to browse our course offerings and contact us today for more information or to schedule a course. For questions and additional information: Kirk Richardson (TEEX) 979-845-4364 Kirk.Richardson@teex.tamu.edu Center for Marine Training & Safety Texas A&M University at Galveston P.O. Box 1675 Galveston, TX 77553 E-mail: cmts@tamug.edu Phone: 409-740-4933 © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675, Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway, Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road, Galveston, TX 77554 Site Policies Back to top