Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Living & Resources Family Resources Graduate School Skip to Navigation Family Resources Information for Graduate Students Who Are Parents Balancing your life as a scholar and as a parent in graduate school may get challenging. Brown University is committed to supporting graduate students with children and strives to provide resources and support necessary to help graduate student parents thrive in their time at Brown. These pages feature Brown University resources and community resources that may be helpful starting points whether you are expecting, already have children, or are considering starting a family while at Brown. We encourage graduate students to explore the resources on these pages, at Brown and in the community, to determine best options for care, for education, for community activities and support for their children. We recommend graduate student parents connect with other graduate student parents at Brown through various channels (listserv, Facebook group, grad student parent events) to gain additional recommendations, advice and insight on additional resources. Finally, we welcome graduate students to reach out to the Graduate School with questions regarding policies, advocacy and opportunities for community support. Several offices contributed to this information, including BioMed's Office of Graduate & Postdoctoral Studies, the Office of Student Life, and the Graduate School. To suggest content for parents, links or event listings, please contact [email protected]. Family Resources Links Family Policies & Resources Policies and resources at Brown for graduate students who are parents. Day Care Resources Learn more about researching and touring day cares to find the right program for you and your child. Community Resources The Providence community offers many resources that may be useful for both you and your family. Postdocs Resources Benefit-related information at Brown for postdoctoral appointees. Women's Resources Resources geared towards the advancement of women at all levels in their careers. Health & Medical Resources Information about general health education, medical and dental resources and resources to maintain a healthy lifestyle for you and your family. Moving to Providence Providence is large enough to offer a great variety of activities, educational opportunities, and entertainment, yet small enough to easily navigate. Schools Learn more about elementary and secondary educational opportunities available in Rhode Island. Family Activities While Providence is the second largest city in New England it is affordable and manageable, making it a wonderful place for families. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Providence & RI Housing Offices & Resources Campus Facilities Family Resources International Students Crisis Support Food and Related Resources for Graduate Students Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Child Care Subsidy Grad Student & Postgrad Parent LISTSERV Backup Child Care and Services for Graduate Students through Care.com Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants