Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Spanish for the Health Professions Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Spanish for the Health Professions Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Spanish for the Health Professions Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Required Courses Graduate Certificate in Spanish for Health Professions Advance your career in healthcare and develop the cultural sensitivity needed to work with Latinx and Spanish-speaking patients with the Graduate Certificate in Spanish for Health Professions in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple. Students who earn this certificate deepen their knowledge of the Spanish language and broaden their intercultural competencies so they can more meaningfully communicate with the Latinx community in healthcare settings. Tailored for current healthcare professionals, this 12-credit graduate certificate program is offered completely online, allowing you to complete coursework while working full time. Through the Spanish for the Health Professions Certificate (Graduate) program, you will develop skills to navigate the varieties of language used by target populations; hone your ability to interpret and translate between Spanish and English; and practice and improve your aural, oral, reading and writing skills by explaining procedures, describing diagnoses and completing intakes in Spanish, using the most appropriate language for the situation (e.g., clear, simple language or specialized medical terminology). Additionally, students develop cultural competencies by studying the Latinx population in the U.S. and through assignments that address the diversity of this population’s cultural concerns and expectations in healthcare, as well as the cultural norms that inform them. Coursework explores the most prominent health issues in a given community, allowing students to engage with patients on these topics. Program Format & Curriculum All courses in the part-time Graduate Certificate in Spanish for Health Professions incorporate best practices in online learning, including the following. Asynchronous online learning, which is completed on students’ own time and combines student language learning with the content and strategies needed to serve the target population. These include Latinx health issues, translation/interpretation strategies and medical vocabulary. Livestreaming course delivery, which links students to Temple’s Spanish faculty, honing oral skills through authentic communication including roleplays, group discussions and seminars in Evening Synchronous Sessions. Students can complete the certificate in one academic year if courses are taken consecutively; however, students may take up to two years to earn the certificate. The Spanish for the Health Professions Certificate (Graduate) curriculum includes the following four required courses. Advanced Medical Spanish, in which students use their Spanish for a specific purpose: providing health services to a Spanish speaker or intervening as an interpreter or translator to facilitate the practice of some aspect of medicine. Latino Health Issues in the U.S., in which students form an understanding of the cultural, economic, environmental and medical factors that play a part in an individual’s health, wellness and care within their community. Spanish for Health Professions, in which students acquire a foundational knowledge of the medical language and cultural practices pertinent to interactions in a healthcare context that includes Spanish-speaking and Latino patients. Spanish/English Interpretation Techniques for Healthcare, in which students are introduced to the ethics and techniques of interpretation and translation used in healthcare settings. Learn more about the Spanish for the Health Professions Certificate (Graduate) curriculum. Careers The Spanish for the Health Professions Certificate (Graduate) program is designed for individual healthcare professionals who wish to better prepare themselves to more efficiently and effectively serve the Latinx population. Additionally, organizations can enroll a cohort of employees to meet the state and the nation’s goal for quality and accessible healthcare. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For questions regarding the Spanish for the Health Professions Certificate (Graduate) program, contact the following staff member. Norma Corrales-Martin is the program contact for the Spanish for the Health Professions Certificate (Graduate). Email: ncm@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-SPHP-GRAD Additional Program Information Available online. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Spanish for the Health Professions Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Required Courses Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info