Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Center for Service Learning and Volunteerism About Us Student Programs Faculty & Staff Community How to Serve AmeriCorps Volunteer Odyssey Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Students Overview Alternative Break Experience Explore OpportunitiesABE Staff Days of Service Service on Saturday Civic Engagement Board Student Volunteer Spotlight Take Action Service on Saturday Days of Service What is Engaged Scholarship? Contact CSLV Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Center for Service Learning and Volunteerism Students Days of Service Days of Service Throughout the year there are several opportunities for the University community to gather in service to the City of Memphis. These events are closely tied to our institutional commitment to active and engaged citizenship, and seek to expose students, faculty, and staff to a variety of topical direct service experiences. Registration links will be available two weeks prior to an event. When signing up or logging in, please click "Log in via U. Memphis" and use your Memphis log-in and password. All opportunities and registrations can be found on Volunteer Odyssey by clicking here! Fall 2022 Semester Days of Service Welcome Weekend Day of Service | August 20 Generally, the weekend before Fall classes begin, we hold our Welcome Weekend Day of Service event. This is our largest service event of the year with between 300-500 students participating in service sites across the city. This is an opportunity for new students to learn more about what the city has to offer, and an opportunity for returning students to reconnect to the city, through service. America Recycles Day | November 19 In celebration of America Recycles Day, we will be learning about recycling and working with local organizations who focus on recycling and sustainability efforts. This is a great opportunity to give back to the community while helping to create a more sustainable future. Spring 2023 Semester Days of Service Martin Luther King, Jr. Day of Service | January 14 This service event will help shine a spotlight on service as a powerful force to bridge economic and social divides not only for this day, but throughout every day as a Memphian. This event will provide students, faculty and staff with an opportunity to join together as neighbors, colleagues, leaders, and Memphians to take on challenges that exist throughout the city. Ultimately, serving in honor of the late Martin Luther King Jr. will bring us all together to help make our community a better place for everyone! Read Across America Day of Service | TBD A program of the National Education Association, Read Across America commemorates Dr. Seuss' birthday by supporting youth literacy. In a mission to create and celebrate a nation of diverse readers we join schools across the country in supporting literacy programming in K-12 schools across Memphis. Take some time this week to volunteer at a Memphis school to read to a class of children and build enthusiasm around reading! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/26/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.