Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Student Affairs VPSA Office Strategic Direction Departments Departments Campus Recreation Chaplain and Religious Life Dean of Students Dr Bob Smith Health Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Hegi Family Career Development Center Office of the Student Experience Residence Life and Student Housing Social Change and Intercultural Engagement Student Affairs Administration Student Center and Activities Women and LGBT Center Stakeholders Stakeholders Employers Parents and Families Partners Resources Resources Student Event Guidelines Student Boulevard Guidelines Alcohol Approval Request Form Giving Newsstand Get Help ☰ Attention If you or someone you know is experiencing an emergency, please contact the SMU Police Department at 214-768-3333 or call 911. SMU PD Website SMU Student Affairs Get Help Get Help Student Affairs wants to ensure students and their families that help and support are available through a variety of resources. These programs assist students in navigating academic and personal difficulties, while also ensuring that University community members (such as students, faculty, and staff) can connect students needing help with assistance in a timely manner. Please explore the programs below for more information on each. Caring Community Connections (CCC) The Caring Community Connections Program provides support to students who are experiencing challenges by identifying and linking them to appropriate resources. Learn More Bias Education Response Team (BERT) If you observe or experience an incident of bias, we encourage you to file a report online through the Bias Incident Reporting Form to SMU's Bias Education and Response Team (BERT). Learn More Hazing Reporting Form The purpose of this form is to notify the Office of Student Conduct & Community Standards that a hazing incident has occurred. Learn More Sexual Harassment Reporting If you have experienced any form of sexual harassment, please know that you are not alone. SMU and community resources can help, including 24-hour emergency response, medical care and confidential counseling. You can choose the resources you are most comfortable contacting. Learn More Academic Issues For questions or concerns about academic issues, you can find useful information here to help guide you for the best path to follow, including contact information for department chairs and convenient links to academic support teams ready to help. Learn More Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share