Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Photonic Science and Engineering, BSPSE Create the future of optics and photonics. Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Optics and Photonics Department(s) Optics and Photonics 4 years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. A High-tech Program for a Laser-focused Career The Bachelor of Science in Photonic Science and Engineering degree prepares the next generation of engineers for the growing optics and photonics industry. Offered jointly by the College of Optics and Photonics and the College of Engineering and Computer Science, it’s the only bachelor’s of its kind in Florida — at a university that’s a leader in research and education in optical and photonic science and engineering. Here, you’ll learn from world-renowned faculty, gain strong connections to industry and have the opportunity to take part in the active undergraduate student organization, the Society of Optics Students. Courses include lecture and laboratory activities to provide you with both the robust knowledge and real-world experience that top employers seek. Your studies are designed to prepare you for a rewarding career while fulfilling the rapidly growing needs of an industry that is finding applications in nearly every part of everyday life. Graduates of the program have many opportunities available. With more than 35,000 U.S. companies in the field, you can explore industries including biomedical, aerospace, communication, energy production, data storage, defense and national security, information processing and advanced manufacturing. And for those looking to pursue an advanced degree, UCF’s Master of Science in Optics and Photonics is ranked nationally as one of the top 15 programs by U.S. News and World Report. Related Programs: Electrical Engineering, MSEE – Accelerated BSEE to MSEE Computer Engineering, MSPE – Accelerated BSCpE to MSPE Physics, B.S. Highlights The College of Optics and Photonics has a current membership of 70+ companies in its Industrial Affiliates Program. Over the years, CREOL faculty have produced more than 260 patents and spun off 26 companies. Projected job growth in photonics and engineering is 5%. Median earnings for photonics and engineering graduates is $70,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Laser Engineering and Laboratory Cover basic laser phenomena, including the photon nature of light, absorption and spontaneous and stimulated emission of light, fluorescence, optical amplifiers, optical resonators and nonlinear optical wave conversion. Fiber-Optic Communications and Laboratory Gain an understanding of the principles and design of fiber-optic communication systems, including the integrated-optic and optoelectronic devices used in transmitters and receivers. Imaging and Display and Laboratory Get a first-hand look at mathematical and physical models of two- and three-dimensional imaging systems including gazing, scanning, interferometric, tomographic, and hyperspectral systems. View All Photonics and Engineering Courses You’ll Take Photonics Knowledge You’ll Learn Gain in-depth knowledge and hands-on experience with advanced photonics concepts allowing you to have a career in a multitude of companies. Determine how systems should work, identify any complex problems that may arise and use creativity to develop new solutions. Gain an understanding of other fields to increase communication, collaboration and project management among teams within various industrial environments. Learn how to work on an interdisciplinary team. Career Opportunities Photonics Engineer Engineering Manager Optical Engineer Quality Engineer Site Reliability Engineer Validation Engineer News and Updates Check out more stories Research UCF Researchers Earn Top Spots in Their Fields in New Ranking of Scientific Impact The rankings appear in a new study that used citation metrics to help gauge scientific impact in a broad range of fields. Research UCF’s Butterfly-Inspired Nanotech Makes Natural-Looking Pictures on Digital Screens The digital displays are lit by surrounding light and are more natural looking than current displays that rely on bright lights hidden behind screens. Colleges & Campus UCF and SPIE announce $250,000 Endowed Scholarship Fund for Undergraduates Studying Optics and Photonics The Soileau Family-SPIE Optics and Photonics Undergraduate Scholarship Fund will support undergraduate students with preference given to first-generation college students. Colleges & Campus UCF Master’s Programs in Emergency Management, Nonprofit Management Rank Among Top 5 in the Nation In their recent 2021 Best Graduate Schools, U.S. News & World Reports ranked 27 UCF graduate programs among the top 100. Degree Search College of Optics and Photonics programs Bachelors Photonic Science and Engineering (BSPSE) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Bachelor of Science in Photonic Science and Engineering degree is designed to prepare the next generation of engineers for the growing optics and photonics industry, which has a broad set of applications including manufacturing, healthcare, telecommunication, defense, security, and entertainment. The program draws on UCF's internationally recognized strengths in the field of optics and lasers and is matched to the strong photonics industry in Central Florida. The degree is offered jointly by the College of Optics and Photonics and the College of Engineering & Computer Science. This program has potential ties to professional licensure or certification in the field. For more information on how this program may prepare you in that regard, please visit https://apq.ucf.edu/files/Licensure-Disclosure-COP-Photonic-Science-and-Engineering-BSPSE.pdf Degree Requirements Majors in the B.S.P.S.E. degree are required to achieve a 2.250 or greater GPA for their engineering core courses, including STA 3032 and PHY 3101, together with the photonics courses required for the major, technical elective courses, and the senior design courses. Students in the Photonic Science and Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Photonic Science and Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Photonic Science and Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Photonic Science and Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. In addition to courses required for admission to the BSPSE Major, students must also obtain a 2.0 or greater GPA in each of the following courses: EGN 3211, EEL 3004C, EEL 3123C, MAP 2302, PHY 2049C or PHY 2049 and PHY 2049L, OSE 3052, and OSE 3052L . Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 8 Total Credits Complete all of the following EGS 1006C and EGN 1007C are for UCF FTIC students, or may be transferred to UCF. These two credits are counted toward the restricted elective credit total. STA 3032 credits are counted in the GEP Math Foundations total. Complete the following: EGS1006C - Introduction to the Engineering Profession (1) EGN1007C - Engineering Concepts and Methods (1) PHY3101 - General Physics Using Calculus III (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: EGN3211 - Engineering Analysis and Computation (3) PHZ3150 - Introduction to Numerical Computing (3) C (2.0) or better required for EGN 3211 Core Requirements: Advanced Level 47 Total Credits Complete all of the following Engineering Requirements Complete all of the following Complete the following: EEL3004C - Linear Circuits I (3) EEE3350 - Semiconductor Devices (3) EEL3123C - Linear Circuits II (3) EEE3307C - Electronics I (4) EEL3552C - Signal Analysis and Analog Communication (4) C (2.0) or better required in EEL 3004C and EEL 3123C. Photonics Requirements Complete all of the following Complete the following: OSE3200 - Geometric Optics (3) OSE3200L - Geometric Optics Lab (1) OSE3052 - Foundations of Photonics (3) OSE3052L - Foundations of Photonics Laboratory (1) OSE3053 - Electromagnetic Waves for Photonics (3) OSE4520 - Laser Engineering (3) OSE4520L - Laser Engineering Laboratory (1) OSE4410 - Optoelectronics (3) OSE4410L - Optoelectronics Laboratory (1) OSE4470 - Fiber-Optic Communications (3) OSE4470L - Fiber-Optic Communications Laboratory (1) OSE4830 - Imaging and Display (3) OSE4830L - Imaging and Display Laboratory (1) OSE4930 - Frontiers of Optics and Photonics (3) C (2.0) or better required in OSE 3052 Restricted Electives 12 Total Credits Earn at least 12 credits from the following types of courses: The following combination of courses can be used to meet this requirement, but at least 3 credits must be completed from an OSE-prefixed course. OSE-prefixed Restricted Elective. Credit Hours: minimum of 3 credit hours are required to be completed. Approved Restricted Electives from approved upper level photonics, engineering, physics, mathematics, or other related electives. (See myKnight Audit for a complete list) EGS 1006C Introduction to the Engineering Profession. Credit Hours: 1 EGN 1007C Engineering Concepts and Methods. Credit Hours: 1 OSE 4953 for Photonic Science and Engineering students double majoring in Electrical or Computer Engineering. Credit Hours: 1, repeatable for a total of 2 credits. All electives must be approved by the program advisor. The courses used to satisfy the restricted elective requirement and used as part of the major GPA calculation will be those with the highest grades out of all restricted elective courses the student has completed. Capstone Requirement 6 - 8 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following Complete the following: OSE4951 - Senior Design I (3) OSE4952 - Senior Design II (3) Earn at least 8 credits from the following: EEL4914 - Senior Design I (3) EEL4915L - Senior Design II (3) OSE4953 - Senior Design Double Major ECE (1) Students who declare a double major in Photonic Science and Engineering along with Electrical Engineering or Computer Engineering can elect to complete the following two-semester sequence for their capstone requirements: EEL 4914 - Senior Design I and OSE 4953 - Senior Design Double Major ECE followed by EEL 4915L - Senior Design II and OSE 4953 again. Otherwise, students will need to complete OSE 4951 and OSE 4952 in addition to the ECE requirements for Senior Design (EEL 4914 and EEL 4915L) Grand Total Credits: 73 - 75 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida