For Alumni Contact Us Give Now Where To Give Ways to Give Donors Resources Give Now Where To Give Ways to Give Donors Resources Contact Us For Alumni Corporate and Foundation Relations Welcome to Corporate and Foundation Relations at Clemson University! We are dedicated to establishing and maintaining long-term relationships with corporations and foundations that result in philanthropic support for the mission and priorities of Clemson University. Economic development is top priority on our main campus and evident throughout the state at our enterprise campuses and PSA research and education centers. Wherever you find possibility and promise, you will find Clemson! Engagement Opportunities Clemson University is preparing the next generation of corporate leaders and innovators. We offer many ways for your corporation or foundation to partner with us to reach that shared objective. Philanthropic engagement opportunities include: Company Named Scholarships for Undergraduate Students Company Named Fellowships for Graduate Students Facility and Lab Support or Naming Programmatic Support for On-Campus and Outreach Initiatives including but not limited to: Call Me MISTER Erwin Center for Brand Communications Career Center Corporate Partners Program Professional Development / Lecture Series Summer Scholars / Camps Curriculum Support Gift-In-Kind Student Projects that support student experiences like Senior Capstones or Creative Inquiry (excluded projects related to IP) Endowments Named Professorships Event Sponsorship (The Men of Color Summit, Hack-A-Thons, Academic Summits, etc.) Meet the CFR Team The CFR team works closely with all members of the Advancement division, college deans and the leadership in Academic Affairs, the Office of Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives, the Office of Sponsored Programs, the Center for Career and Professional Development, the Clemson University Research Foundation, Clemson Sports and Campus Marketing, and Athletics to build comprehensive and strategic relationships with corporations and foundations. Philanthropic Sponsors in the News Hitachi High Technologies Electron Microscopy Fellowship A Clemson graduate student is selected annually to receive a $25,000 fellowship sponsored by Hitachi High Technologies to continue their research in high specialized topics using electron microscopy. Hitachi High Technologies is one of the world's top manufacturers and engineers of electron microscopes. Deep Orange 9 Vehicle The Deep Orange 9 vehicle is a Next-Generation Rallycross racecar that envisions a clean, fuel-efficient car of the future that doesn’t compromise on performance. The prototype vehicle sponsored by Honda R&D Americas Inc. was designed and built by automotive engineering students at the Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR). Duke Energy EXPLORE Mobile Lab Duke Energy committed $400,000 to outfit the "EXPLORE Mobile Lab" that will travel across South Carolina to offer student-focused activities in science and math. The program is designed to show students how the math and science they learn in the classroom applies to real life. Wells Fargo Day - Emerging Scholars Wells Fargo is dedicated to providing support to the Emerging Scholars and Call Me MiSTER programs at Clemson. Emerging Scholars provides high school students in economically challenged counties in South Carolina the knowledge and skills to succeed in college. Call Me was established to increase the number of diverse teachers in South Carolina and provides tuition assistance for its students in teacher education. Pete and Sally Smith Foundation Mobile Clinic Support from Pete and Sally Smith Foundation deploys the outreach of two mobile health clinic vehicles and other programs through the Joseph F. Sullivan Center at Clemson. These two additions helped create a fleet of vehicles to provide low-cost health care to those in need and may include wellness-based chronic disease prevention, breast and cervical cancer screenings, cardiovascular screenings, and general acute care. CU Business EDGE First Citizens Bank established the CU Business EDGE program in the College of Business to provide students the opportunity to improve and expand their personal development skills through initiatives as etiquette dinners, resume workshops, mock interviews and dress-for-success events. The EDGE program is designed to set Clemson students apart from their peers as a well-rounded and competitive workforce, and has been extremely successful since its creation in 2018. Sonoco FRESH Launch Event Sonoco FRESH (Food Research Excellence for Safety & Health) was established at Clemson University with generous philanthropic support from the Sonoco Foundation to have a major impact on the safety, security and sustainability of food. The gift established the Sonoco FRESH program, a multi-disciplinary innovation hub to enable projects, promote education, outreach, and research. CFR Blog Public/Private Partnerships Contact Us Learn More Search Make a Gift Update Your Contact Information Giving History EU Consent 110 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631 864-656-5896