Skip navigation Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors menu Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Global Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support Office of Global Engagement International Education Trends The field of international education is most often described as education that transcends borders through the mobility or exchange of people, for example students studying abroad. However, the field is far more expansive. It includes a comprehensive approach to education that prepares students to be active and engaged participants in an interconnected world. Today's international education landscape is vast and with numerous possibilities. From providing service and internship opportunities abroad to students, to internationalizing higher education campuses and building global partnerships with governments, NGOs, industry and universities, it is an ever changing field with boundless opportunities. The following provides a snap shot of trends in the field and upcoming events. Reports & Trends: The Geography of Foreign Students in U.S. Higher Education: Origins and Destinations A new analysis of international student visa approvals from the Brookings Institution traces where international students on F-1 visas are coming from and where they are going at the level of the city. Open Doors Data 2014 ReportOpen Doors 2014 Data Report The IIE annual statistical survey of campuses regarding international students in the U.S. and study abroad trends includes data from approximately 3,000 accredited U.S. institutions. This report highlights key findings including an 8% increase in international students stuyding in the U.S. over the prior year, a 2% increase of U.S. students studying abroad, and the $27 billion that international students contributed to the U.S. economy in 2014. UNESCOHigher Education in Asia: Expanding Out, Expanding Up This report presents data and analysis to better understand the factors driving the expansion in undergraduate and graduate education across Asia. By looking at the system as a whole, the authors evaluate the strategies used to respond to current demand but also to build a sustainable system that can continue to grow in terms of quality and reputation. NAFSA’s Internationalizing the Campus: Profiles of Success at Colleges and Universities Report on international education in the United States highlights selected institutions' exemplary practices, model approaches, and major trends in internationalization on each campus. The Journal of Studies in International Education (JSIE) The Journal of Studies in International Education (JSIE) September 2014 issue JSIE is a journal dedicated to the internationalization of higher education. Articles discuss theoretical, conceptual and practical aspects of internationalization including regional, national and institutional policies and strategies, internationalization of the curriculum, issues surrounding international students and cross-border delivery of education. Forum on Education AbroadForum EA - Standards of Good Practice for Education Abroad (5th Edition) The Forum on Education Abroad develops and disseminates comprehensive Standards of Good Practice for the field of education abroad. It promotes best practices and excellence in curricular design, engages in data collection and research, conducts program assessment and quality improvement, and advocates on behalf of its members and the field of education abroad. Forum EA-State of the Field Survey Report Since 2006, the Forum on Education on Abroad has collected data through its State of the Field Surveys in 2006, 2008, 2009, 2011 and 2013. The goal of each of these surveys has been to take the pulse of the fi eld on key issues and trends. The Forum uses the responses from the State of the Field Surveys to report out important data that is useful to the fi eld at large; to shape the Forum’s research and program agenda; and to inform the projects of its commiƩ ees and working groups. Forum EA 2013 Preliminary Report In February 2013, the Forum on Education Abroad conducted a survey on current practices in education abroad. This Institutional and Program Resources Survey continued work begun by two earlier Forum projects, the Pathways to the Profession Survey (2008) and the Program Management Survey (2007), but advances those projects by including issues and topics that have developed in the ensuing years _Joint Programmes from A to Z: A reference guide for practitioners The aim of this guide is to provide a comprehensive, practical reference guide on all aspects that need to be taken into account when developing and managing joint programmes. The focus is on programmes leading to a joint or multiple degree and offered by institutions in different countries IERJInternational Education and Research Journal (IERJ) A multi-disciplinary research journal “International Education and Research Journal (IERJ)”. It is an open-access, international indexed, peer-reviewed, scholar journal, dedicated to serve the scholars by quality research work. _Internationalizing Higher Education Worldwide: National Policies and Programs Analyzes the array of government-initiated higher education internationalization programs and policies in place around the world. The report presents numerous policy examples and examines issues surrounding their implementation and effectiveness. _Internationalizing U.S. Higher Education: Current Policies, Future Directions Takes an in-depth look at internationalization-related federal policies in the U.S., and includes recommendations to improve their effectiveness. The question of whether the U.S. needs a comprehensive national policy for internationalization is addressed. CIGE InsightsMapping International Joint and Dual Degrees: U.S. Program Profiles and Perspectives This series of occasional papers explores key issues and themes surrounding the internationalization and global engagement of higher education. Papers include analysis, expert commentary, case examples, and recommendations for policy and practice. Internationalizing the Tenure CodeInternationalizing the Tenure Code Fostering a global focus among faculty in the early stages of their careers sets the stage for continued interest and activity in the international realm, and helps institutions build a globally engaged professoriate from the ground up. --2015 State of the Field Survey Report The Forum on Education Abroad has collected data via the State of the Field Survey since 2006 to take the pulse of the field on key issues and trends: to report on important data that is considered useful to the field at large; to inform the projects of Forum committees and working groups; and to shape The Forum’s research and program agendas. OGE Section Submenu About Us Global Partnerships Grant Opportunities Planning Your Global Activity International Education Trends News & Events University-wide Policies for International Activities Brown Global Voices Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Top Destinations Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Map & Directions Social Media Dashboard Contact Us / Accessibility Giving to Brown