Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Leadership Fellows Board of Trustees University Leadership Offices History Mission Notable Alumni Commitments Financial Information Contact Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics University of Notre Dame Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics Home Contact Search Menu Leadership Home › About › Leadership Notre Dame is governed by the Board of Fellows and the Board of Trustees. The senior leadership of the University is comprised of the President’s Leadership Council and the Deans’ Council. University Executive Officers Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C. President Full Biography Office of the President Elected in 2005 as the University of Notre Dame’s 17th president, Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., has devoted himself to fostering the University’s unique place in academia, the Church, our nation, and the world. A philosopher trained in theology and a member of Notre Dame’s Department of Philosophy since 1990, Fr. Jenkins earned undergraduate and advanced degrees from Notre Dame, a doctorate of philosophy from Oxford University, and a master of divinity and licentiate in sacred theology from the Jesuit School of Theology. As president, Fr. Jenkins has been committed to combining teaching and research excellence with a cultivation of the deeper purposes of Catholic higher education. While pursuing academic distinction, he has brought renewed emphasis to Notre Dame’s distinctive mission, rooted in the tradition of the Congregation of Holy Cross, the University’s founding community, to educate the whole person—mind, body, and spirit—to do good in the world. If we are clear in our purpose, we will excel in our ideals. This will be my priority and my passion as president of Notre Dame. Inaugural Speech, 2005 Christine M. Maziar Interim Provost Full Biography Office of the Provost As interim provost, Christine M. Maziar is Notre Dame’s chief academic officer and is responsible for the stewardship of this mission, serving as the principal representative of the academy to both internal and external constituencies and leading strategic academic initiatives on behalf of the University. Working with the associate provosts, the vice president for research, the associate vice president for undergraduate enrollment, the deans, the University librarian, and other academic leaders, she seeks to cultivate a learning community that challenges and engages students, inspires leading research and scholarship, and appreciates all intellectual inquiry as a pursuit of truth. Shannon B. Cullinan Executive Vice President Full Biography Office of the Executive Vice President Shannon Cullinan was elected executive vice president effective July 2019 after serving as vice president for finance since 2017. He returned to his alma mater in 2000 serving as assistant vice president for Public Affairs and Communications, assistant vice president for Development, associate vice president for Continuous Improvement and Campus Services, and associate vice president for University Relations. Cullinan previously served as the associate executive director of the Center for the Homeless in South Bend, and he also owned and operated an advertising company. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1993 with a bachelor’s degree in accountancy and earned his MBA from the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School. Governance The University of Notre Dame is governed by a two-tiered structure (Fellows of the University and the Board of Trustees), in which lay men and women have joined with religious of the Indiana Province of Holy Cross in the governance of the University. The Fellows of the University are a “self-perpetuating body,” consisting of six members who at all times must be “members of the Priests Society of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Indiana Province, and six of whom shall be lay persons.” The Fellows are the associates in office of the original founders of the University and, among other responsibilities, determine powers to be delegated to the Board of Trustees. Read more about the responsibilities of both the Fellows and Board of Trustees. Leadership Fellows Board of Trustees University Leadership Offices History Mission Notable Alumni Commitments Financial Information Contact Academic Articles Organizational Chart [417kb PDF] Bylaws of the University [283kb PDF] Charter [64kb PDF] Statutes [116kb PDF] Quick Links Bookstore Employment Tour InsideND Academic Calendar University of Notre Dame Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA 41.703234 -86.238985 Phone: (574) 631-5000 Contact Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Emergency Closed Captioning Notice of Non-Discrimination Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit