UHCO Home UH Home Login to AccessUH Visit Us On Facebook! 4849 Calhoun Rd., Ste. 100 Houston, TX 77204 (713) 743-7141 | Monday - Friday 8AM -4PM The Surgery Center Toggle navigation About The Center Our Mission Our Team Our Procedures Cataract Surgery Cataracts: Causes, Symptoms & Treatment Considering Surgery IOL Options Day of & After Surgery FAQs Cornea Transplant Entropion & Ectropion Surgery What is Entropion? What is Ectropion? How We Treat? Glaucoma Procedures How we Treat? Oculoplasty Blepharoplasty Ptosis Pterygium What is Pterygium? Main Symptoms How We Treat Refractive Lensectomy What is Refractive Lensectomy? Considering Surgery Day of & After Surgery IOL Options Retinal Detatchment What is a Retinal Detatchment? How are Retinal Tears and Detachments Treated? Our Technology LenSx Laser Optiwave Refractive Analysis System (ORA) Constellation OPMI Lumera 700 Infiniti Vision System Verion System Patient Resources Scheduling / Cancelling Surgery Documents and Policies Insurance & Billing Pre & Post-Operative Instructions Directions, Hours & Parking Physician List Feedback Physician Resources How to Refer a Patient Refer a Patient Physicians List Meet Our Administrators Leading The Way The only optometry school in the nation with an on-site surgery center! Refer a Patient One Medical Passport Feedback Directions to The Surgery Center Located in Houston, TX Click Here For Driving Directions 4849 Calhoun Rd., Ste. 100 Houston, TX 77204 (713) 743-7141 | Monday - Friday 8AM -4PM COVID-19 information for the Ambulatory Surgery Center Due to COVID-19 concerns, the University Eye Institute and all University of Houston College of Optometry affiliated clinics will be open for essential care only. If you need essential services or experience symptoms that need urgent attention, such as sudden vision loss, flashes or floaters in your vision, eye pain or redness, please call the University Eye Institute or the clinics. You can reach our staff 24/7 by calling 713-743-2020. Additional clinic contact information by location: The University Eye Institute (Houston, TX) – 713-743-2020 The UH Eye Center in the Heights (Houston, TX) – (713) 527-8480 Cedar Springs Eye Clinic (Dallas, TX) – (214) 528-7354 Community Eye Clinic (Fort Worth, TX) – (817) 289-6800 Our doctors will determine how to help you get the care you need. Patients asked to come in will be screened on entry with a questionnaire and a temperature check. Only one additional person can accompany you to the appointment. Prescriptions, Orders & Refills If you need to refill prescription medications, please call 713-743-2020. Contact lenses and glasses on order will be mailed to patients at no cost. To order a new supply of contact lenses, please call 713-743-2015. To replace lost or broken glasses from a prescription on-file call: 713-743-2030. The UH College of Optometry Surgical Center The Ambulatory Surgical Center is closed from March 23 until May 4th. Re-opening depends on the local public health guidelines. The health, wellbeing and safety of our patients, faculty, staff and students is of primary concern to us at the University Eye Institute and the UH College of Optometry. To read the University of Houston coronavirus advisory, click this link: https://www.uh.edu/internal-alerts/coronavirus/ Clinical Operations information was last updated on 04/21/2020 at 09:44 AM You have the right to receive a good faith estimate of expected charges. Follow Us Insurance & Payment Options Treatment of many eye conditions are covered by insurance, including Medicare. At the UH College of Optometry Surgery Center we accept most major medical insurance plans. Learn More How to Refer a Patient For your convenience The UH College of Optometry Surgery Center now offers the capability to submit online referrals. Please contact Chaminga Lorensuhewa via phone at 713.743.1856 or via email at chlorens@central.uh.edu to obtain an online referral account and instructions. Learn More Patient Parking Complimentary, gated parking for patients will be located in the front of the UH Health and Biomedical Sciences Building. Please use entrance ##2A. Entry to this parking lot is accessed off Calhoun Rd., between the Campus Recreational & Wellness Center and the new UH Health and Biomedical Sciences Building. Learn More Our Physicians Medical Passports are secure, online patient-controlled accounts that provide our surgery center with medical history information. Learn More Our Procedures Cataract Surgery Cornea Transplant Entropion & Ectropion Surgery Glaucoma Procedures Oculoplasty Pterygium Refractive Lensectomy Retinal Detatchment Cataract Surgery Cornea Transplant Entropion & Ectropion Surgery Glaucoma Procedures Oculoplasty Pterygium Refractive Lensectomy Retinal Detatchment Accreditation The University of Houston College of Optometry Ambulatory Surgery Center holds the highest of standards as the center is both Medicare and Medicaid Services approved, licensed by the Texas Department of State Health Services and Regulatory Licensing under the provision of the Health safety Code, Chapter 243, and the Ambulatory Surgical Center Licensing Rules. Applying to UHCO | University Eye Institute | The Surgery Center | Academic Programs NBEO Pass Rates | 2025 OD Class Profile | Current Research Studies | Faculty Directory | Administration | Continuing Education ©2022 University of Houston College of Optometry. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies