Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Site Navigation Faculty Awards New Faculty Academic Committees Open Faculty Positions Faculty Affairs Faculty 2022 Dean’s Awards Congratulations to all of the recipients of the 2022 Dean’s Awards for Faculty Excellence! Read more Faculty Profile: Brandon Marshall, Ph.D. We spoke to Brandon Marshall, Associate Professor of Epidemiology, about the opioid epidemic within the pandemic. Meet Professor Marshall School of Public Health COVID-19 Experts in the News Local, national, and international news media call on faculty in the School of Public Health for their expertise during the coronavirus pandemic. In the News Faculty in Focus: Akilah Dulin, Ph.D. Community is the thread that runs through the teaching, research, and policy work of Associate Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences Dulin, a medical sociologist studying how ‘resilience,’ or the ability to flourish in spite of adversity, may lead to better HIV-related outcomes. Read Professor Dulin's story Faculty in the School of Public Health take an integrated approach to improving people's lives. Their research begins before conception, through research on environmental exposures that affect fertility and cause birth defects. It continues through the prime of life: targeting the behavioral choices that threaten well-being—tobacco and substance abuse, obesity, risky sexual behaviors—and encouraging wellness and healthy aging—physical activity, nutrition, injury prevention. And at the end of life, Brown researchers advocate for a patient-centered, research-based approach to terminal illness that considers a person's values and beliefs. Their work impacts people around the world, thanks to partnerships forged locally and globally, from Providence's South Side to South Africa. Behavioral and Social Sciences BSS Faculty Biostatistics Biostats Faculty Epidemiology Epi Faculty Health Services, Policy & Practice HSPP Faculty Faculty Awards The latest School of Public Health faculty awards and recognition. learn more New Faculty Meet the newest faculty members welcomed by the School of Public Health. learn more Academic Committees Public Health faculty and staff comprise the memberships of the Curriculum Committee, the Undergraduate Studies Committee, the Graduate Studies Committee, and the Faculty Appointments Committee. learn more Faculty Resources Extensive resources to assist faculty with teaching, advising, mentoring, and other responsibilities related to our shared academic and educational mission. Faculty Resources Open Positions Centers & Institutes Faculty Affairs School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top