Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Office of the Provost COACHE Survey Menu About the 2020 Survey COACHE FAQs Download Report Feedback Form News Working Groups Office of the Provost COACHE Survey In Fall 2019, the Provost formed a Task Force to assess faculty satisfaction and identify strategies to enhance the faculty experience, retention, and productivity. The Task Force partnered with Harvard’s Collaborative on Academic Careers in Higher Education to conduct an extensive survey of all faculty in Spring 2020. This strategic partnership allows us to compare our results across campus, relative to 5 peer institutions, and across 110 institutions nationwide. At this time, we are entering the next stage of work which includes a range of campus conversations. These conversations are designed to help us identify specific strategies to address University, school, and departmental challenges. The COACHE Executive Report dated October 2021 is available below. Download 2021 Report Explore COACHE Survey Report The COACHE survey report provides a comparison of Baylor’s survey results to a “cohort” of 110 COACHE partners who identify as generally similar. A complete list of the schools in this “cohort” is available in the appendix of the Report Preview that is downloadable from this page. In addition, a group of five “peers” was selected to represent a comparison set of those most similar to Baylor in the faculty labor market. Those “peer” universities include: Emory University, Georgetown University, Saint Louis University, Tulane University, and Vanderbilt University. For questions about the survey or the Report Preview, please contact COACHE@baylor.edu. Initiatives from COACHE recommendations: Faculty Hiring Program RFP Diversity Discipline Specific Programming To explore a few of the key highlights from the COACHE survey findings, please click below: 2020 COACHE Faculty Survey Response Rates Baylor 63% Peers 41% Cohort 44% Satisfied with Time Spent on Research Baylor 55% Peers 54% Cohort 50% Satisfied with Time Spent on Service Baylor 68% Peers 59% Cohort 56% Satisfied with Time Spent on Teaching Baylor 85% Peers 80% Cohort 76% Areas singled out as "Concerns" at Baylor include: Decision-making processes across all levels Mid-career uncertainty Experiences of underrepresented minority faculty Barriers to Interdisciplinary Research and Teaching Areas singled out for "Best Aspects" of Baylor include: Quality of Colleagues Quality of Undergraduate Students Support of Colleagues Departmental Collegiality Facilities and Work Resources About FAQs Feedback Download Report News Read More News Jan. 25, 2021 COACHE Survey Results: An Invitation for Conversation and Analysis Three years ago, Baylor developed a strategic roadmap that would guide the academic priorities of the University. Thanks to the great work and commitment of our faculty, we have made significant progress toward the goals established in that strategic plan, Illuminate. Read More Oct. 13, 2020 COACHE Faculty Satisfaction Survey Results Earlier this year, you were invited to participate in the COACHE Faculty Satisfaction Survey designed and administered by Harvard University to help assess areas at Baylor that impact faculty satisfaction, such as research, service, teaching, facilities, resources, policies, benefits, collaborative work, mentoring, tenure and promotion, leadership, institutional governance, shared governance, collegiality, and recognition. We want to say “thank you.” Read More Feb. 25, 2020 Baylor's Faculty Job Satisfaction Survey - COACHE One of Baylor’s highest priorities is the satisfaction and success of its faculty. To reach that goal, we must continuously strive to understand areas of faculty success and faculty concern and work together to find solutions, processes and procedures that support improvement. Read More Feb. 6, 2020 Helping Our Faculty Flourish through Participation in the COACHE Job Satisfaction Survey Early next week, you will be invited to participate in an important faculty survey that will help us better understand faculty job satisfaction – areas of faculty concern, areas of success, and challenges facing our faculty as a whole. This survey is part of a national research partnership called the Collaborative on Academic Careers in Higher Education (COACHE), which has been operating from the Harvard Graduate School of Education since 2003. Read More Events See More Events General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About the 2020 Survey COACHE FAQs Download Report Feedback Form News Working Groups