Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Bridget Terry Long Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Faculty & Research Bridget Terry Long Dean of the Faculty of Education Saris Professor of Education and Economics Degree: Ph.D., Harvard University, (2000) Email: [javascript protected email address] Phone: 617.495.3401 Personal Site: Link to Site Vitae/CV: Bridget Terry Long.pdf Office: Longfellow 101 Faculty Assistant: Marketa A. Crandle Profile Dr. Bridget Terry Long, Ph.D. is Dean and Saris Professor of Education and Economics at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. A member of the HGSE faculty since 2000, Long served as academic dean from 2013 to 2017 and was previously the faculty director of the Ed.D. and Ph.D. programs from 2010 to 2013. Long is an economist who focuses on the transition from high school to higher education and beyond. Her research examines the impact of factors such as affordability and academic preparation on college student outcomes. Several projects also examine the effects of providing information and assistance with college processes on the likelihood that students engage in important educational activities. As part of this line of research, she and co-authors have developed a series of interventions and worked with multiple schools and other organizations to evaluate the impact of these initiatives on behaviors such as saving for college, the completion of financial aid forms, and persistence in higher education. Long’s other research projects examine the role of instructor quality, class size, and support programs on educational attainment. Long is a research associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) and a member of the National Academy of Education. She is also a Fellow of the International Academy of Education (IAE). Long has won numerous research grants, including major awards from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the U.S. Department of Education, and the National Science Foundation (NSF). She is also on the Board of Directors for MDRC, a nonprofit social policy research organization, and the Society for Research on Educational Effectiveness (SREE). She was awarded the Robert P. Huff Golden Quill Award from the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators (NASFAA). Long was appointed to the National Board for Education Sciences (NBES), the advisory panel of the Institute of Education Sciences (IES) at the U.S. Department of Education, and she served as Vice Chair and then Chair during her appointment. She has also testified multiple times before Federal Congressional Committees and state government bodies, and she has been a Visiting Fellow at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. Long earned her Ph.D. and M.A. from the Harvard University Department of Economics and her A.B. from Princeton University in Economics with a Certificate in Afro-American Studies. Areas of Expertise Economy and EducationEducational EquityFinancial Issues in EducationHigher Education AdministrationMinoritiesPolicy Analysis and EvaluationResearch Methods News Stories Celbrating Our First Century and Launching Our Next Education, A Sacred Profession Historic Gift Allows HGSE to Expand Scholarship Aid for Teachers Education Now: Keeping Our Schools Healthy A Time Like No Other Let's Make This Year a Turning Point Long Recognized with 2021 Spencer Mentor Award Will the Pandemic Change Higher Education for Good? What the Future of Education Looks Like from Here Bridget Long In this section Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Bridget Terry Long Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice