Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Helping a Student in Distress Home Is This a Crisis? How Can I Help? Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Peers and Students Emergency Contacts Site Navigation Home Is This a Crisis? How Can I Help? Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Peers and Students Emergency Contacts Faculty and Staff Resources for Faculty and Staff Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) - Confidential resource to consult regarding student situations Student Support Services (SSS) - Nonconfidential resource to consult regarding student situations Faculty/Staff Assistance Program - Counseling options for faculty and staff Sheridan Center For Teaching and Learning - Inclusive teaching resources and long-term professional development on supporting students in the classroom How to Take Care of Yourself Dealing with students in distress can be a stressful and taxing experience. Be sure to take care of yourself, too. Seek support from colleagues and supervisors. It may also be helpful to talk with a counselor. Counseling services are available free of charge for faculty and staff members through the Faculty/Staff Assistance Program (FSAP). If you're interested in counseling options for yourself or a colleague, please contact the Faculty/Staff Assistance Program (FSAP). How Can I Help? Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Peers and Students Division of Campus Life Division of Campus Life Brown University Box 1896 20 Benevolent St Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1800 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top