Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » Prospective Students » High School Students Set Navigation title in component High School Students Current UC Students Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing High School Students All first-time students who apply to a baccalaureate degree at UC are considered for admission to the University Honors Program (UHP). In order for the student to be considered, the university must receive all completed all sections of the Common Application and additional documents for admission by December 1st. Students do not submit a separate application for the University Honors Program. Admission to the University Honors Program is very competitive. Students invited to participate typically have: an unweighted high school GPA of 3.6 or higher or a weighted high school GPA of 3.8 or higher. Outstanding personal statement and essays in the UC application for admission that demonstrate particular skill in reflection Strong combination of co-curricular activities, unique experiences, awards and achievements or work history For Fall 2022, University Honors will conduct a test-optional admissions process. Meeting the above academic parameters does not guarantee admission. Admission is based on more than difficult classes, test scores and high school GPA. While we are looking for students who have excelled academically, we are also looking for students who demonstrate leadership capacities, a willingness to take on challenges and an interest in becoming engaged in local and global communities. We are looking for reflective learners. Students with high test scores and GPAs must also demonstrate the above in their application for admission to the university to be considered for the UHP. With the above in mind, we pay very close attention to co-curricular activities as well as the personal statement and essay that are submitted as part of the application for admission to the University of Cincinnati. Applications are reviewed holistically, keeping all of these aspects in mind. Notifications and Other Info Students who have been admitted to the University Honors Program as incoming first year students for Fall 2022 will be notified after the UC Eearly Action Decision Day on January 24. These decisions will be emailed from late January to mid-February. Housing First-years students who have been admitted to University Honors experience multiple benefits related to University Housing. The University of Cincinnati uses a self-selection process where students who have submitted an application are able to select their own spaces from available locations throughout the on-campus housing options. University Honors students are among the first to select from these spaces early in the summer prior to their arrival. Additionally, University Honors reserves select locations. For more details, learn more about the University Honors housing benefits and process. UHP Close-Up UHP Close-Ups are an opportunity for admitted students to learn more about what UHP has to offer and how we approach an honors education differently. Through experiential learning, innovation, and reflection, we enable our students to use their passions and strengths to make a positive impact on their communities. Learn more by watching this recording from our Close-UP on March 23, 2021. Not Invited? Students who have not been invited to participate in the University Honors Program as first-time applicants will not be sent a notification. We know that there are many high-achieving, highly-motivated students at UC who are not in the program. Due to limited capacity, we are not able to invite all high-achieving students to the program as first years. Those who are not invited to join the program as incoming students are encouraged to apply to participate in the program through our transition admission process. While the UHP does not offer tuition-based scholarships or financial aid, we are often asked by students when they will receive notification of their UC financial aid package and scholarship awards. Typically, admitted students receive this notification in mid-March. If you have questions about financial aid or scholarships, please contact UC's Office of Student Financial Aid. Questions about admissions Please contact the Office of Admissions at 513-556-1100 or admissions@uc.edu. University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top