Jump to navigation Support Lamont Research Main menu Research Education News & Events People Marine Ops About Support Shop Research Research Core Repository Biology & Paleo Environment Geochemistry Marine Geology & Geophysics Ocean & Climate Physics Office of Marine Operations Seismology, Geology, & Tectonophysics Publications Database Publications Procedures Media Inquiries Education Education Hudson River Field Station Public Events K-12 Students Educators Undergraduate & Graduate Students Academic Calendar LDEO Alumni Diversity at Lamont Lamont Code of Conduct News & Events News & Events Research News Lamont in the Media Public Lecture Series Events Monthly Newsletter Media Inquiries People Marine Ops Office of Marine Operations R/V Marcus G. Langseth Cruises Cruise Planning Marine Mammal Protection LDEO Ship History Cruise Schedule What We Learn People R/V Langseth Financial Management Guide U.S. Science Support Program About About LDEO Mission History Annual Reports Office of the Director The Vetlesen Prize Alumni Organization & Policies Open Positions Map & Contacts Support Support LDEO Ways to Give Development Staff Directory Shop Search form Search People & ContactsPeople & Contacts - Directory - Map & Contacts - Media Inquiries People & Contacts Directory Map & Contacts Media Inquiries jimhayes Primary tabs View (active tab) Contributed Content Profile James D. Hays Professor Emeritus Earth and Environmental Sciences Biology and Paleo Environment Co-Chair - Task Force on Undergraduate Education Columbia University Special Research Scientist Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory 104 Core Lab 61 Route 9W - PO Box 1000 Palisades NY 10964-8000 US Phone: (845) 365-8403 Fax: (845) 365-8150 jimhays@ldeo.columbia.edu linebreak Fields of interest: Climate change history; evolutionary history of microfossils I have spent my research career studying deep-sea cores in an effort to read some meaningful history from the minerals and fossils they contain. My interests now include the history of climate change over the past three million years, specifically the factors that contributed to the initiation of large advances and retreats of northern hemisphere glaciers toward the beginning of this period and why the climate response of the two hemispheres is so extraordinarily symmetrical despite asymmetrical geography and forcing. A second kind of history that has caught my fancy is the evolutionary history recorded by the myriad microfossil specimens entombed in as little as a gram of deep-sea sediments. Migrations, speciations and extinctions all can be precisely documented in space and time through our global array of deep-sea cores. I work primarily with a group of siliceous microfossils known as Radiolaria. These extraordinarily beautiful microfossils have large numbers of species in both high and low latitudes. This high diversity has made them useful stratigraphically and is proving important in their paleoecological and paleobiological utility. Education List of degrees from highest to lowest: Ph.D. Columbia 1964 Master of Science Ohio State 1960 Bachelor of Arts Harvard 1956 Referenced in the Following News Items: Prof. Emeritus Jim Hays wins 2010 Milankovitch Medal Research Core Repository Biology & Paleo Environment Geochemistry Marine Geology & Geophysics Ocean & Climate Physics Office of Marine Operations Seismology, Geology, & Tectonophysics Publications Database Publications Procedures Media Inquiries Education Hudson River Field Station Public Events K-12 Students Educators Undergraduate & Graduate Students Academic Calendar LDEO Alumni Diversity at Lamont Lamont Code of Conduct SUPPORT Ways to Give Development Staff Directory Tweets by @LamontEarth The Earth Institute Campus Services Campus Life Video Archive Login Annual Report Strategic Plan Copyright © 2020 by The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York, Lamont -Doherty Earth Observatory. All rights reserved. Support Lamont Research