Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home About About The ideal college experience Indiana University students get it all—the storybook experience of what college should be like, and the endless opportunities that come with it. Top-ranked academics. Awe-inspiring faculty. Dynamic campus life. International culture. Phenomenal music and arts events. The excitement of IU Hoosier sports. And a jaw-droppingly beautiful campus. IU Bloomington is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission and is a member of the North Central Association. Learn more about our accreditation. Founded in 1820, Indiana University Bloomington is the flagship campus of IU’s seven campuses and two regional centers statewide. Innovation, creativity, and academic freedom are hallmarks of our world-class contributions in research and the arts. A legacy of preparing leaders We’ve nurtured doers and leaders over our past two centuries by creating an academic atmosphere where revolutionary ideas and unexpected collaborations rule the day. IU educational experiences change the lives of our graduates—and the lives of the communities they serve as experts and professionals. There are larger universities in America. There are older universities in America. There are none, however, more typical of the American ideal of educational opportunity.Herman B Wells, Past IU President and Chancellor From African history to analytical chemistry Environmental policy, social psychology, music, nuclear physics, foreign languages—our diverse academic programs are among the best, with several ranking #1 and in the top 10 nationally. We’re also known for innovation and firsts like the nation’s first informatics school. On podiums around the world IU faculty, students, and alumni aspire to the highest standards of their fields, bringing home prestigious national and international awards: Tonys, Oscars, Nobel Prizes, Pulitzer Prizes, Emmys, Grammys, Olympic medals, Guggenheims, and Fulbrights. You’ll find us on podiums and stages of all kinds—performing, accepting honors, standing up for human rights, and presenting our research. A mecca of music and fine arts The top-ranked IU Jacobs School of Music and our fine arts, theatre, and entertainment offerings rival much larger cities. IU stages more than 1,000 performances every year, in venues that are artistic experiences in themselves. The Musical Arts Center—which we call “the MAC”—is one of the grandest arts venues in the United States, seating 1,460 and featuring a 90′ x 60′ main stage. The MAC stage is often compared to the New York Metropolitan Opera. Trekking the globe with open minds and big hearts We extend our famous IU “Hoosier hospitality” to ideas as well as people. With open-mindedness and kindheartedness, we support a diverse, international environment that seeks out all perspectives and draws on our global experiences. IU consistently earns accolades for overseas study programs and worldwide philanthropic ventures—and for a forward-thinking campus climate. Championing students’ dreams IU creates career-focused learning experiences that move our graduates forward with confidence. It all starts here, with your dream. Ready to see where IU can take you? Explore academics Learn how to apply See how IU invests in your future History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University