Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Loewenberg College of Nursing About Us Programs & Admissions Student Life Faculty & Staff Research & Initiatives News & Events Giving & Support Scrub Hub Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs & Admissions BSN ProgramAdmissions Accelerated BSN ProgramAdmissions RN to BSN ProgramAdmissionsRequest Info MSN ProgramAdmissions Post MSN ProgramAdmissions PhD Program Admissions Pre-Admit Lambuth FAQs Applied: What's Next? Take Action Schedule a tour Apply now Give now Contact Us Find us on Social Media InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Loewenberg College of Nursing Programs and Admissions PhD Admissions Apply to LCON PhD Program We're so excited to announce the addition of a doctorate program at the Loewenberg College of Nursing! How to Apply Spring admission only Application & Interview dates May 1 through December 1 Apply to the University of Memphis Graduate School. Apply to UofM Grad School > PhD Admissions Criteria The applicant must meet all criteria for admission to the graduate school. A master's degree is required for admission and international applicants will be expected to submit a minimum score of 550 on the paper, a 210 on the computer-based, or 79 on the internet based Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). Additionally, applicants will: Possess an unencumbered RN license or equivalent in the student's state/nation of residence. Earned Master's Degree with minimum GPA of 3.0. If a GPA is not available, the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is required with scores from the last five years with a minimum of verbal and quantitative score of 140 and analytical writing score of at least 3.0. Provide three letters of reference from individuals familiar with the applicant's capabilities for doctoral study and for future performance as a nurse scholar and researcher. Generally, two letters from former professors will be expected. Submit a personal statement of approximately 750-1000 words indicating his/her present interests and career goals, including how the PhD in Nursing will prepare the student to achieve those goals. Provide a writing sample (e.g., published paper, or coursework from previous degree program is acceptable). Provide a copy of the applicant's curriculum vitae (CV) or resume. Interview via phone, face-to-face, or Skype will be required. The PhD Program Committee will review all submitted materials. Admissions decisions are made on the overall quality of the applicant's professional background in nursing, scholarship, academic ability, as well as the applicant's "fit" for the program in terms of academic background, research interests, and career goals. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.