Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Center for Global Engagement Menu About CGE Main Office Dr. Jeffrey Hamilton Lynae Jordan Robert Leis Holly Joyner Jorge Vielledent International Student and Scholar Services Office Dr. Mark Bryant Grace Semple-Paul, JD Leslie Hicks Timothy Johnson Brandon Hoye Delores Melendez Study Abroad Office Bo White, Ed.D. Kodi Henderson Katie Klingstedt Sophia Ferris Global Gateway Program Events News Study Abroad Why Study Abroad Steps to Study Abroad Choosing a Program Academics Study Abroad Advising Appointment Costs and Funding Application Timeline Parent Information Baylor Study Abroad Programs Types of Programs Programs by Location Areas of Study Explore Programs Internships and Research Abroad Health & Safety I'm Accepted..What's Next? Tips Photo Contest Social Media Takeover Study Abroad Fair Program Director Portal Program Director Development Videos Propose a New Program BearsAbroad GlobalProtect VPN International Travel with Duo Global Safety and Security FAQ International Student and Scholar Services International Students New Student Information F-1 Degree-Seeking Students J-1 Exchange Students Paying Taxes International Scholars Visiting Faculty & Researchers Health Services and Insurance - Scholars J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining Status Programs & Activities Spring 2022 Trips & Special Events Global Friendship Program CGE Ambassadors International Organizations International Student & Scholar Workshops Academic and Language Resources International Student Resource Hub Community Support Page Summer Courses in China Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit ISSS Programming Framework Global Baylor Certificate Program Enrollment and Benefits Submission Process Global Engagement Courses Testimonials Intercultural Competence Courses Global Calendar & Events First Abroad Fellows Program Connecting to Global Initiatives Quality Enhancement Plan Global Baylor in the News International Education Week Global Gateway Our Program About Us Cornell Menking Meredith Moore Nate Hutcherson Christine Fabiszewski Matthew Piech Tanya Vernon Debra Wainscott Tracey Jones Amber McKinney Visitor Directions to the Global Gateway Program Current Students IY - Undergraduate MIY - Graduate International Student Academic Support STL 1205 - Academic Success Strategies for International Students New Students On-Campus Study Information Frequently Asked Questions GGP Arrival Information On-Campus Housing & Dining Finances Life at Baylor Academics Faculty & Staff Toolkit Toolkit Global Scholars Why Global Scholars Global Scholars Application Process Starting in Dublin Studying in Dublin, Ireland Course Work Cost Residence Hall in Dublin Global Scholars Community Global Scholars Leadership Register Travel Faculty/Staff Only Travel Faculty & Student Group Travel Student Only Travel Give Baylor>Center for Global Engagement>International Student and Scholar Services>International Students>Paying Taxes Paying Taxes 2021 Tax Filing Deadline: Monday, April 18, 2022 Tax forms must be postmarked in the mail by this date! General Information As in most countries, the tax laws in the United States are very complex. The resources on this page and any subsequent pages should help you to better understand your tax obligation, know what and where to research, and to successfully file your tax forms. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is the U.S. government agency that collects taxes. It is important to be aware that, as a non-resident student in the U.S., you are legally required to file a tax return if you received any U.S. income during the year 2021. Even if you did not work or receive income in the U.S., you are still required to file a Form 8843 with the IRS: Baylor University has arranged free access to Sprintax Tax Preparation for you. Please click here to access the website. Sprintax will guide you through the tax preparation process, arrange the necessary documents and let you know if you are due a tax refund. It will be your responsibility to mail the documents to the address provided. Sprintax will offer tax webinars closer to tax season. Please revisit this page later for updates about tax workshops. Sprintax also has a wealth of resources in the form of YouTube videos here on filing your taxes. Listed below are some important points to remember. This information is meant to be a general introduction and should not be considered legal tax advice: Taxes are paid on the income from the preceding year. The 2021 forms are used for the income that you earned during the 2021 calendar year (not the school year). As an F-1, J-1 Student, or J-1 Scholar, you may need to file forms each year with the IRS, even if you earned no income. Your specific requirements may depend on many factors including, but not limited to, your visa status, the purpose of your visit, the number of days you were in the United States, the amount of income you earned, and if there is a tax treaty between your country and the U.S. While employers do deduct money from your paycheck throughout the year and send it to the IRS, it may not equal the exact amount owed at the end of the year. If too much was deducted, you may be eligible for a refund. If not enough was deducted, you may owe more to the government. It is your responsibility to understand and meet your tax obligations. Our office and Sprintax are here to help. Frequently Asked Questions If I arrived at Baylor in January 2022, do I have to do anything this year? No, if you were not in the U.S. during the tax reporting year, then you do not have to do anything this year. What is Taxable Income? Some kinds of income are taxed while others are not. Generally, income from foreign sources is not taxed. Salary from a job in the U.S. is taxed. Other types of income are taxable. Some examples of income include: Wages that appear on form W-2 are taxable. Scholarship or fellowship income that requires services (i.e., teaching assistant, athletic scholarships) will be treated as wages, like employment. Scholarships, fellowships, and grants may be partially taxed. Money used for other expenses, like room, board, and travel, are taxable. Do I need a Social Security Number (SSN) or Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN)? Yes, if you were employed or paid by Baylor, you will need a Social Security Number. If you did not work but received scholarships from Baylor you may need an ITIN to file your taxes. What is an ITIN? An ITIN is an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number issued by the IRS. You would only need this if you do not have and do not qualify for a Social Security Number, and you received a scholarship/fellowship in the U.S. Baylor's tax software, Sprintax, will help determine if you need an ITIN and generate the paperwork. Sprintax will assist students to apply for an ITIN for a nominal fee of approximately $16. For more information please email Grace_Semple-Paul@baylor.edu What if I only have a Social Security Number but not an ITIN? You will have one or the other but not both. If you have submitted tax forms previously using an ITIN but now you have a Social Security Card, you should use the Social Security Card. **Disclaimer** This information is intended only for international students and scholars who are non-resident alien taxpayers with income sources and level typical of students and scholars at Baylor University. Although the information contained in this site has been reviewed carefully and should be adequate to assist most international students and scholars, it is not a substitute for advice obtained from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or a qualified tax accountant. If your visa status has changed in the past year, or you believe you have a complicated tax issue, please consult the IRS or a qualified tax accountant. International Student and Scholar Services International Students New Student Information Getting To Waco Living in Waco Banking and Money Baylor Welcome Weekend Food Stores Getting a Cell Phone Getting a Driver's License Health Services Housing Transportation Weather in Waco Working on Campus Global Bears Week F-1 Degree-Seeking Students F-1 Student Guidelines SEVIS Registration for Fall and Spring Terms Suspension and Expulsion Termination of SEVIS Record Document Management Academic Program Completion Insufficient Funds Deferment Post Baccalaureate Study F-1 Visa Renewal Changing to F-1 Status Online Programs and Courses Health Services and Insurance Avoiding Fraud and Scams F1 Students and Summer Enrollment Student Requests Replace or Update I-20 Request Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Post Completion Optional Practical Training (OPT) Pre-Completion Optional Practical Training (OPT) STEM OPT Extension CAP-GAP Extension Leave of Absence Letter Requests On-Campus Employment Reduced Course Load Change of Level Reinstatement of Status Transfer In and Out Travel Authorization Dependents Extend or Shorten Your Program Social Security Number Severe Economic Hardship J-1 Exchange Students Application Process Costs Room and Board Course Selection Health Services and Insurance - Exchange Students Paying Taxes Process Forms and Documents Frequently Asked Questions International Scholars Visiting Faculty & Researchers Health Services and Insurance - Scholars J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining J-1 Status Two Year Residency 12 & 24 Month Bars Travel Procedures Extensions Program Transfer 212e Waiver J-2 Dependents Lecture Requests and Consultations Maintaining Status Programs & Activities Spring 2022 Trips & Special Events Global Friendship Program CGE Ambassadors 2020-2021 CGE Ambassadors 2019-2020 CGE Ambassadors International Organizations International Student & Scholar Workshops Academic and Language Resources International Student Resource Hub Community Support Page Summer Courses in China Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit ISSS Programming Framework Center for Global Engagement Hankamer Academic Center, H 160.01 1428 S. 5th St. Waco, TX 76798 One Bear Place #97012 Waco, TX 76798-7012 (254) 710-1461 Global_Baylor@baylor.edu Global_Gateway@baylor.edu ISSS_Support@baylor.edu StudyAbroad@baylor.edu Global BaylorInternational Student and Scholar ServicesRegister Your TravelStudy AbroadGlobal Gateway General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About CGE Main Office Dr. Jeffrey Hamilton Lynae Jordan Robert Leis Holly Joyner Jorge Vielledent International Student and Scholar Services Office Dr. Mark Bryant Grace Semple-Paul, JD Leslie Hicks Timothy Johnson Brandon Hoye Delores Melendez Study Abroad Office Bo White, Ed.D. Kodi Henderson Katie Klingstedt Sophia Ferris Global Gateway Program Events News Study Abroad Why Study Abroad Steps to Study Abroad Choosing a Program Academics Study Abroad Advising Appointment Costs and Funding Application Timeline Parent Information Baylor Study Abroad Programs Types of Programs Programs by Location Areas of Study Explore Programs Internships and Research Abroad Health & Safety I'm Accepted..What's Next? Tips Photo Contest Social Media Takeover Study Abroad Fair Program Director Portal Program Director Development Videos Propose a New Program BearsAbroad GlobalProtect VPN International Travel with Duo Global Safety and Security FAQ International Student and Scholar Services International Students New Student Information F-1 Degree-Seeking Students J-1 Exchange Students Paying Taxes International Scholars Visiting Faculty & Researchers Health Services and Insurance - Scholars J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining Status Programs & Activities Spring 2022 Trips & Special Events Global Friendship Program CGE Ambassadors International Organizations International Student & Scholar Workshops Academic and Language Resources International Student Resource Hub Community Support Page Summer Courses in China Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit ISSS Programming Framework Global Baylor Certificate Program Enrollment and Benefits Submission Process Global Engagement Courses Testimonials Intercultural Competence Courses Global Calendar & Events First Abroad Fellows Program Connecting to Global Initiatives Quality Enhancement Plan Global Baylor in the News International Education Week Global Gateway Our Program About Us Cornell Menking Meredith Moore Nate Hutcherson Christine Fabiszewski Matthew Piech Tanya Vernon Debra Wainscott Tracey Jones Amber McKinney Visitor Directions to the Global Gateway Program Current Students IY - Undergraduate MIY - Graduate International Student Academic Support STL 1205 - Academic Success Strategies for International Students New Students On-Campus Study Information Frequently Asked Questions GGP Arrival Information On-Campus Housing & Dining Finances Life at Baylor Academics Faculty & Staff Toolkit Toolkit Global Scholars Why Global Scholars Global Scholars Application Process Starting in Dublin Studying in Dublin, Ireland Course Work Cost Residence Hall in Dublin Global Scholars Community Global Scholars Leadership Register Travel Faculty/Staff Only Travel Faculty & Student Group Travel Student Only Travel Give