Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Giving Ways to Give Your gifts at work Give now Menu Search SMU Giving Impact Faculty and Staff Giving Faculty and Staff Giving Every day, SMU faculty and staff help shape the lives of countless students, peers and community members. Their efforts – whether in the office or in the classroom, locally or abroad – create world changers. In addition to your time and talent, your current-use gift as part of SMU’s annual faculty and staff giving effort has an immediate impact on students today. Your ongoing support powers the ambitious efforts of SMU students who will no doubt change the world in the years ahead. President’s Partners SMU faculty and staff members directly support the work of their colleagues and enhance the student experience through the President’s Partners program. Gifts can be made by payroll deduction, credit card, or check. Donors who give $100 or more each fiscal year (June 1 through May 31) will receive special recognition. For inquiries about President’s Partners program grants, contact the Provost’s Office at 214-768-2816. For questions about the President’s Partners program, please e-mail fsgiving@smu.edu or call 214-768-4748. Based on the number of years of giving, faculty and staff who give at least $100 in SMU’s fiscal year to the President’s Partners program receive a special pin. President Levels Year 1 — Red Year 2 — Blue Year 3 — Gold Year 4 — Platinum Year 5 — Gold with ruby Year 10 — Platinum with Sapphire Committee Co-Chairs Fredrick I. Olness, Co-chair Jennifer “JJ” Jones ’93, ’99, Co-chair Athletics Kurt Pottkotter Darrick Roberson Business and Finance Vacant Vacant SMU Libraries Carolyn Keenon Julia Stewart Cox School of Business Jim Bryan Don Shelly Dedman College Luisa del Rosal ’08,’15 Vacant Dedman School of Law Becca Henley JoAnn Hubbard Development and External Affairs Matt Hunt Legal Affairs Paul Ward Lyle School of Engineering Thomas Siems Emily Newsome Meadows School of the Arts Jay Hengst Christopher Dolder Perkins School of Theology Ellen Frost ’85 Vacant Office of the President Vacant Office of Information Technology Vacant Aren Cambre ’99, ’03, ’14 Provost/Academic Affairs Vacant Vacant Simmons School of Education and Human Development Vacant Vacant Student Affairs Renee’ Gibson ’05 Vacant Ex-Officio Members R. Gerald Turner Brad E. Cheves Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Impact Your gifts at work Annual Report Alumni Giving Parent Giving Student Giving Faculty and Staff Giving Recognition Giving Societies SMU Ignited Gifts Donor Spotlights Resources Why support SMU Ways to Give Frequently Asked Questions Contact us Office of Donor Relations Give now Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search