Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Applying to Graduate School Home Graduate School Applying to Graduate School If you're considering graduate study as your next step, our career coaches can help you think through this important decision and create an action plan. Whether you are interested in obtaining an advanced research degree in the arts and sciences or attending a professional school, we have resources for every step of the application process. Applying to Law School Exploring Graduate School Applying to Graduate School Financing Graduate School Career Center Resources Should You Go to Graduate School? Graduate school is an enriching experience. You advance your learning, gain expertise, and receive specialized training. Before you apply to graduate school, however, you need to examine your reasons. Graduate school is a massive investment of your time and money, and the decision to apply should not be taken lightly. The first step in determining whether or not to go to graduate school is to be honest with yourself. Consider these questions: Does your intended career path require advanced study? Does the idea of carrying out independent research excite you? Are you prepared to spend the next two to seven years studying while living on a meager budget, accruing loan debt, or both? Have you thoroughly researched graduate school costs? Can a narrow range of topics sustain your interests for two to seven years? Are you a viable candidate for graduate school? Do you meet the minimum requirements for the programs that interest you? Do you have the career-related work experience that might help you get into graduate school? Research Graduate Programs Researching Programs To help you determine if graduate school is right for you, consider taking the following steps to research degree programs to find the best fit for your interests and goals. Work with faculty to identify programs and faculty at other institutions whose research syncs with your interests. Consult professional associations to learn more about best practices, degree programs, and career outcomes for graduate students in your field of interest. Connect with graduate schools’ admissions offices to learn about student life, unique opportunities, financial aid, and more. Network with alumni who’ve pursued graduate degrees of interest to learn about their paths and experience. You can connect with alumni on Eagle Exchange. Join a career cluster. Review the web pages to see if graduate school is required for your field of interest. Meet with a career coach in your field of interest to chart your course and review your next steps. Make an Appointment Terms to Know Term Definition Thesis Original work of research completed after coursework for master’s degree; the length varies to as many as 75 pages, and in some cases more. Dissertation Extensive, book-length (depending on discipline) work of original research completed after coursework for a doctorate; usually more in-depth than a thesis and may exceed a hundred pages in length. Non-Thesis/“Taught” Degrees General master’s degree program in which additional coursework is pursued in lieu of a thesis. ABD All-but-dissertation; term used to designate a doctoral student who has completed all degree requirements save for the dissertation. Comprehensive/Qualifying Exams Oral and/or written exams administered at the completion of coursework in most doctoral and some master’s programs. Oral exams are generally administered by an assigned or student-selected committee of faculty. Thesis/Dissertation Committee Faculty members who direct and evaluate your thesis or dissertation and who hear your defense. Generally consists of your mentor/advisor, several internal faculty members, and potentially scholars from other institutions. Cohort A group of students that generally enter a graduate program at the same time and who work through the course of study together. Mentor/Advisor The faculty member who most closely guides your research, coursework, and in many cases your professional development in your discipline. Professional Graduate Degree Can be earned at the master’s, specialist, and doctoral levels; designed to prepare individuals for specific professions like law, medicine, higher education, primary and secondary education, and others. Research Graduate Degree Can be earned at the master’s, specialist, and doctoral levels; designed to contribute original research to a discipline in the liberal arts and sciences, engineering, communication, and others. GA Graduate Assistant TA Teaching Assistant RA Research Assistant PI Principal Investigator Failing Grade Most graduate programs classify any grade below the A or B range as failing. Reading List Texts—monographs, articles, chapters, etc.--read and studied in preparation for comprehensive exams GSA Graduate Student Association Types of Programs Research Programs Research degree programs are designed to contribute original research and advance knowledge in a particular discipline. Graduate research degrees can oftentimes lead to careers in academy, scientific research, and more. Master’s: Most academic fields award master’s degrees, with the most common being the Master of Arts (M.A.) and Master of Science (M.S.). Research master’s degrees, particularly in the liberal arts and sciences, usually take two years to complete and provide further specialization in particular disciplines. They often culminate in an original thesis, and oftentimes serve as a prerequisite for doctoral studies. Doctorate: Doctorates are terminal degrees. The most common research doctorate is the Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.), which can be pursued in all the liberal arts and sciences and beyond. Ph.D. programs can last anywhere from 3 to 7 years, or more, and involve training that results in original research in the form of a book-length dissertation. The Ph.D. is the primary credential to teach and conduct research at the university level. Professional Programs Professional degree programs are designed to prepare students to enter a specific profession, including law, medicine, higher education, primary and secondary education, accounting, and business. In many cases these degrees are the essential prerequisite for gaining entry-level positions in these fields. Law: A Juris Doctor (J.D.) is required to practice law and enter the Bar as an attorney in the United States. J.D. candidates must attend law school for a prescribed amount of time--usually three years--before graduating and, if they intend to practice law as an attorney, take the Bar exam. Medicine: A Doctorate of Medicine (M.D.) is required to practice medicine. M.D. candidates generally take a pre-med course in college before attending medical school for a prescribed amount of time--generally four years--before graduating and embarking on internships. Education: Master’s and doctoral degrees in education prepare students for careers in education, from the primary to the university level. In many cases, master’s degrees in education (M.Ed.) or teaching (M.A.T.) are required to either receive teacher certification qualification in various states, or to gain additional specialization in instructional areas, including counseling, special education, and administration. Education doctorates (Ed.D.) are often required for executive positions in educational institutions. Business: The Master’s of Business Administration (MBA) is a terminal professional degree that gives students broad training in all aspects of business and management. MBAs are key degrees to progression into management roles, and many programs often require incoming students to have several years professional experience. Other Professional Master’s: A professional master’s degree usually indicates that the degree holder has developed a specific skill set needed to practice a profession or has an enhanced skillset to enable upward mobility in an existing career. Examples include Master of Public Policy (MPP), Master of Social Work (MSW), Master of Library Science (MLS), and Master of Public Health (MPH) degrees. Discover Graduate Programs Graduate Programs at Boston College: Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Graduate Programs Carroll School of Management Graduate Programs Lynch School of Education and Human Development Graduate Programs Connell School of Nursing Graduate Programs Woods College of Advancing Studies Graduate Programs School of Theology and Ministry School of Social Work Law School Discover Graduate Programs Beyond Boston College: Best Graduate Schools by U.S. News & World Report Best Graduate Schools by The Princeton Review Top 50 Best Value Graduate Schools GradSchools.com Graduate Guide Peterson’s Graduate Search PhDs.Org Considerations When Researching Programs Accreditation There are two main types of accreditation, institutional and program specific. You need to determine the properly accredited degree programs in your field. While accreditation is not necessarily the key indicator of quality, you could face negative consequences if the program that confers your degree is not accredited. NOTE: A school that is not properly accredited may not volunteer this information, so dig deep. Admission Standards Most schools publish this kind of information, so look for the number of applicants compared with the number of acceptances and the base requirements for admission, which usually include undergraduate grade-point average and scores on standardized tests. Multicultural/Diversity Opportunities Better programs tend to be diverse because diversity of all types often can signal a broader worldview. Examine the composition of both the faculty and the students in the program. You need to determine a mix where you’ll feel both comfortable and appropriately challenged. Reputation/Ranking Lots of different organizations rank graduate programs, so while rankings are an important measure of quality, you also need to investigate the source of the rankings. Size There are two aspects of size you should evaluate—size of the program and size of its home university. Just as with your undergraduate school, you need to find a size that feels right for you. Examine the resources available to the program, as well as the faculty–student ratios. Faculty Are the program’s faculty members well published? Do they publish in well-regarded peer reviewed journals? What are they currently researching? Does this research match your interests? Are they available or do they travel frequently? Finance What is the tuition for the program? What kind of financial assistance is available? Do they have a variety of assistantships, fellowships, grants, and loans? Make sure you examine all associated costs, including tuition, books and supplies, housing, and miscellaneous fees and expenses. "Fit" With Career Interests If you have a specialized career interest—like environmental law, for example—you need to know whether the graduate program offers specialized courses and experiential opportunities in that area and whether it has faculty members with research interests that will allow you to develop the necessary knowledge, skills, and contacts to start your professional career successfully. Graduation Requirements and The Future Does the program require an exit project, such as a thesis, dissertation, or comprehensive test? Does the program assist with the job search after you receive your degree? Are there career center services designed for graduate students? Where do the graduates end up working? What opportunities for internships, research, and jobs are available while you are in the program? Information adapted from the University of Tennessee Knoxville Graduate School Guide Where Past BC Graduates Have Gone 23% of the Class of 2020 enrolled in graduate school after graduation Top Programs 20% Education 19% STEM 12% Business 12% Law Select Graduate Schools Boston College, Harvard University, Yale University, Brown University, Columbia University, Duke University, Georgetown University, University of Chicago, Johns Hopkins University, University of Notre Dame, Stanford University Outcomes What Makes a Competitive Candidate? Graduate programs vary widely in competitiveness. Research will help you determine what graduate programs value most in their potential candidates. Satisfying the minimum requirements does not guarantee acceptance. A more accurate predictor of acceptance is how you compare with the average qualifications of the current students in the program. To prepare to be a competitive candidate, focus on the following areas: GPA: Typically a 3.0 is the minimum GPA, however average GPAs of applicants are much higher. Focus on earning good grades, especially in related coursework. Test Scores: Score requirements vary by institution and program. Some programs may place more emphasis on particular sections of the test. You will want to look at the average test scores of current students to understand what will make you a competitive candidate. Experience: Your past experiences (internships, practicums, volunteering, research, etc.) will help you differentiate yourself. Instead of focusing on what will "look good", focus on what genuinely interests you. References: Build your relationships with faculty and staff to ensure you will have great letters of recommendation to strengthen your application. Application: Your application brings everything together. Reviewiers are looking for strong writing skills and attention to detail. Make sure you have your personal statement and essays critiqued. Prepare to Apply Types of Admission Essays The admission essay is your chance to influence the admissions committee beyond what is apparent in a transcript or resume. Types of essays will vary by institution and program. The information below details the most common types of essays and tips to succeed. Personal Statement No matter the discipline, each graduate school application will require you to write a personal statement. The personal statement should: Demonstrate your motivations and enthusiasm for pursuing a graduate degree in a compelling manner Showcase your related accomplishments, or unique experiences, that are indicative of your reasons for pursuing graduate study Be genuine, honest, and authentically you Be about two pages long, double-spaced, and perfect: proofread, revise, rewrite, and proofread again Statement of Purpose/Research Statement The statement of purpose, sometimes called the research statement, focuses on your development as a professional, and is a common application component for most research degrees. Like the personal statement, the statement of purpose will vary by school and discipline. In all cases, the statement of purpose should: Indicate your interest in a subject area Connect your previous training to the graduate program and your future goals Showcase previous academic achievements Identify faculty that you want to study with Highlight a research question that you would like to pursue Diversity Statement Many graduate programs will request an optional, one- or two-page essay focused on diversity, equity, and inclusion. These statements generally focus on the following: Your personal background and/or diverse identity (normally broadly defined to include race, gender, ethnicity, sexuality, ability, religion, socioeconomic status, and more) Your prior contributions to diversity and/or how you will contribute to diversity in graduate school Tips for Writing an Admission Essay When you’re competing against thousands of other applicants with similar GPA’s, work experiences, test scores, and recommendations, how do you stand out? One way to polish and differentiate your application is through stellar admissions essays. Your essays are an opportunity to engage the admissions committee and tell them why a graduate program would be a good fit for your skills, personality, and future career goals. Everything you need to know about personal statements Start Early Give yourself plenty of time by thinking about your essays early. The quality of your essay is a very important factor in the admissions process. Make sure you have the time to put in your best effort on each graduate school statement. Start at least two months before the deadline to give plenty of time for revisions and alternative drafts. Research your school’s website and, if possible, read sample essays of admitted students to grasp the expectations for your personal statement. Analyze the Prompt Carefully read through the prompt and make sure you understand what is being asked of you. What are the specific things that the admissions committee wants to know about you? What experiences, thoughts, and goals can you convey that fit into the prompt? Be prepared to answer: why this degree? What can you contribute to their program? Why do you want to go to this particular school/program? If there are multiple questions in the prompt, be sure to answer all of them thoroughly. Discuss your background and experiences that set you apart. Keep it about you, not a historical event or social issue. Organize Your Thoughts and Create a Draft Brainstorm about your personality traits and reasons for going to graduate school. From there, you can extract anecdotes and compelling reasons why you are a strong candidate. Create an outline of your statement and decide where you want examples to appear. Don’t worry about making it perfect at this stage. Mistakes can be fixed in later drafts. Develop a flow to your essay by inserting transitions into the beginning and end of paragraphs. Be Specific Flesh out your outline and provide specific examples. The admissions committee should be able to clearly understand your interest in the field and graduate program through the example(s) you use. It is often easier to trim words than to add paragraphs, so feel free to write beyond the word limit. Revising can come later to pare down your thoughts. Draw from experiences such as, but not limited to, internships, school leadership positions, volunteer work, and other personal anecdotes, to demonstrate your interest in the field Show, don’t tell! Make sure to back up any assertions about your character with supporting evidence (e.g. I am a strong problem-solver and can confidently lead a team. For example, at work I was assigned to…). Find a Creative Angle Write in your personal style! However, make sure to stay genuine and professional in your writing. A common mistake students make is to get too creative and stray from answering the prompt. Starting with an anecdote or weaving a theme throughout the essay, is a good way to add flow and creativity to your personal statement. The opening paragraph can be creative or catchy to draw the reader in, but it doesn’t have to be. You don’t have to pick a topic that is completely unique, as long as your essay is still infused with reflection, insight, critical thought, and strong writing. Multiple Revisions Always revise your essays and have multiple people read them. Your personal statement must not contain any errors. We suggest having at least three people read your essay, including a professor, friend, and a third-pary, such as one of our career coaches. Read your essay out loud. Doing this will help you find awkward wording in your essay and ensure that the document is in your own voice. Check to make sure you vary the beginning of your sentence structure, and don’t start too many sentences with “I.” Utilize transition words or phrases to vary your “I” statements. Make sure your personal statement demonstrates strong critical thinking, reflection, and writing skills. Keep your writing concise and simple. Using large words for the sake of sounding intelligent often comes across as pretentious rather than experienced. After revising, leave the paper alone for a couple days and focus on other work. Come back with a fresh pair of eyes and see if the paper truly conveys why you want to attend the specific graduate program. Use the Connors Family Learning Center to have your essay revised and critiqued. Tailor Your Personal Statement to be School-Specific Do NOT re-use the same personal statement for every school you are applying to. While you do not have to write an entirely new statement for each school, make sure you read each prompt carefully and tailor your goals and examples to the specific program to which you are applying. In most personal statements, you’ll want to mention why you are specifically interested in the program or school. Do your research to be able to talk about particular classes, professor, initiatives, research opportunities, practicum placements, etc. Law schools typically ask this as a separate question on the application, so be sure to read each essay prompt carefully. Entrance Exams Most graduate and professional schools require your scores on at least one standardized test for admission. Test and score requirements vary by institution and program. Some programs may place more emphasis on particular sections of the test. Earning a minimum score will put you in consideration, but it will not guarantee admission. You should look at the average test scores of current students to understand what will make you a competitive candidate. We encourage you to start early to understand the exam and the amount of time it will take you to prepare. Most exams are only offered at certain times of the year in designated locations. You will need to schedule a date to take the exam that will offer you enough time to prepare and still meet application deadlines. You may also want to schedule enough time to take the exam again, if needed. Types of Standardized Tests: Graduate Record Exam (GRE): The most commonly requested exam for master’s and doctoral programs Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) Law School Admission Test (LSAT) Medical Admission Test (MCAT) MCAT Score Interpretation Praxis Tests Pharmacy College Admission Test (PCAT) Dental Admission Test (DAT) Optometry Admission Test (OAT) Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) – English proficiency test for international students Test Preparation: Several test-preparation resources are available, including books with practice questions and test-prep courses. Test-preparation courses range in cost and time. Do your research to find an option that works for your budget and schedule. Below are common options to start with: Boston College Test Prep Kaplan Test Prep The Princeton Review Peterson's Khan Academy Magoosh Letters of Recommendation You will need to include letters of recommendation in your application. Your recommenders should be people who can describe your interests and abilities and support their comments with specific examples. Give your recommenders several weeks to write your recommendations, and discuss your application deadlines to be sure your admission packet is completed on a timely basis. Be sure to waive your right to see the recommendations; graduate schools prefer to see “blind” recommendations because they allow the recommender to be more honest. Provide the recommendation writers with some background materials, such as a resume and a copy of your personal statement, to help them focus on your specific strengths, accomplishments, and interests. Interviews and Campus Visits You may find that the admissions committee for your prospective program wants to meet with you in person to discuss your goals and your fit with their program. This is a popular option for medical and business programs. The Big Interview platform has resources to help you prepare for a graduate school admissions interview. You can also schedule an appointment with one of our career coaches to practice an interview. Whether the program requires an interview or not, do plan to visit your top choices if you can. While you are there you will want talk with admissions, faculty, and other students to gain a better understanding of how the program fits your criteria. You should sit in on a class, if possible, and visit the community to gain a feel for the surrounding areas. Remember that while you might be there to gather information about their program, they will also have the chance to learn more about you—be professional and prepared at all times. Official Transcripts Graduate programs will require an official transcript. Current students can request official transcripts using the transcript request link in the Agora Portal. Alumni may request transcripts by going directly to the National Student Clearinghouse website. Paper transcripts, delivered via regular or express mail, are available for request. Starting September 1, 2020, there will is a $5 charge per electronic transcript and a $7 charge per paper transcript. Additional fees are required for express mail service. For more information, visit the Transcript Requests page. Information adapted from the University of Tennessee Knoxville Graduate School Guide Finance Your Education Graduate school is a major investment in your future. Generally, graduate students fund their educations in several ways: Grants, Scholarships, and Fellowships: Research grants, fellowships, and scholarships can cover all or parts of the cost of attendance and can be awarded by the graduate institution or external organizations and benefactors. Assistantships: These awards can come in the form of stipends and tuition remission, and are often coupled with an on-campus employment experience. Federal Loans: The most common federal loan for graduate school is the PLUS Loan. Federal loans offer much lower interest rates and tend to have more options for repayment. Loans must be paid back after graduating. Private Loans: Do your research before applying for private loans, as they often have higher interest rates and inflexible repayment options. Personal/Family Savings Employment Resources Funding Resources: Boston College Financial Aid Database of Graduate School and Postdoctoral Fellowships, Scholarships, and Awards ProFellow Funding and Fellowships Database Peterson’s Scholarship Search FastWeb.com Scholarship Search Loan Resources: Federal Student Aid: Understanding Types of Aid FAFSA Graduate and Professional Student PLUS Loans FinAid.org How the Career Center Can Help Graduate school is an important step in your career journey. We're here to partner with you throughout application process. Our office can help you: Determine if graduate school is the best option for you Connect with alumni to discuss their career paths Explore graduate programs Prepare your application materials Evaluate offers To get started, schedule an appointment to meet with one of our career coaches. Our career exploration coaches can help you narrow down your options if you're exploring multiple paths. Our industry specialists can help you with applying to programs related to a specific discipline. Pre-Law If you're thinking about law school, our pre-law advisor is available to assist you throughout the law school application process. Our law school page contains resources to help you get started. Law School The Government, Law, and Public Policy career cluster has specialized resources to assist you with exploring a career in law. Join the cluster to receive bi-weekly emails and important reminders. Government, Law, and Public Policy Pre-Health If you're thinking about medical, dental, or vetrinary careers, the pre-health office is available to assist you throughout the application process. Visit their office for help with getting started. Pre-Health Office The Healthcare and Nursing career cluster has specialized resources to assist you with exploring careers in medicine and nursing. Join the cluster to receive bi-weekly emails and important reminders. Healthcare and Nursing Business School If you're thinking about business school, our BCF Graduate School Toolkit will help you explore and prepare for a business-related graduate degree. BCF Graduate School Toolkit In addition, the Business, Consulting, and Finance career cluster has specialized resources to assist you with exploring careers in business. Join the cluster to recieve bi-weekly emails and important reminders Business, Consulting, and Finance Quick Links Handshake Career Clusters Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Resources From the Career Center Blog Communicating Research on Your Resume As a graduate student in the liberal arts and sciences, there’s a good chance that you spend most of your March 28, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Graduate Students: Use this Resource to Explore Diverse Careers! Graduate students are encouraged more and more these days to explore multiple career paths. This is especially true for PhD February 21, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Four Ways Graduate Students Can Explore Diverse Careers Graduate students are encouraged to explore diverse careers beyond traditional paths often associated with their degrees, such as academia. But November 17, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Personal Statement Tips for International Students If you’re applying to graduate school, you will need to write a personal statement as part of the application. The October 07, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Law School Application Supplemental Statements: Q&A with Duke Law School Law school applicants know that they have to submit a personal statement as part of their application, but what about October 06, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam How to Write a Law School Personal Statement If you’re applying to law school this cycle, you will need to write a personal statement as part of the September 13, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Communicating Research on Your Resume As a graduate student in the liberal arts and sciences, there’s a good chance that you spend most of your March 28, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Graduate Students: Use this Resource to Explore Diverse Careers! Graduate students are encouraged more and more these days to explore multiple career paths. This is especially true for PhD February 21, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Four Ways Graduate Students Can Explore Diverse Careers Graduate students are encouraged to explore diverse careers beyond traditional paths often associated with their degrees, such as academia. But November 17, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Visit Blog Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College