Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Vice Provost for Research Menu Main Nav Vice Provost for Research Vice Provost for Research Contact Back Back Close About Overview Research Facilities Animal Care Facility Clean Room Electron Microscopy Flow Cytometry BD FACSAria Cell Sorter Imaging Facility Isotope Geochemistry Magnetic Resonance Mass Spectrometry Scientific Instrumentation & Machining Services Transmission Electron Microscope X-ray Crystallography Materials Characterization Training News Contact Policies Related Links Research Policies at Boston College VPR Organization Chart (PDF) Internal Grant Opportunities Sponsored Programs Overview Coronavirus Updates BC Research Policies & Federal Regulations University Research and Projects Policy Funding Assistance Documentation & Forms Institutional Profile PeopleSoft Financials Technology Transfer Overview Invention Disclosure Guidance and Education Faculty and Staff Students Partners and Industry Documents Frequently Asked Questions Research Security, Integrity and Compliance Overview Research Security Research Integrity Research Misconduct Export Controls Research Protections Overview Policies & Procedures Forms & Templates Protocol Submission Authorization Agreements Training International Research Animal Welfare Contact Postdoctoral Affairs ResearchMatch Related Links ORP Standard Operating Procedures document Policy for the Protection of Human Research Participants IRB Committee Bylaws Human Subjects Payment Policy Gift Card Distribution Log Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Classics Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home About Research Facilities Mass Spectrometry Research Facilities Animal Care Facility Clean Room Electron Microscopy Flow Cytometry Imaging Facility Isotope Geochemistry Magnetic Resonance Mass Spectrometry Scientific Instrumentation & Machining Services Transmission Electron Microscope X-ray Crystallography Materials Characterization Mass Spectrometry iLab Login The Mass Spectrometry Center The Center for Mass Spectrometry (CMS) facility at The Merkert Chemistry Center maintains a wide range of state-of-the-art mass spectrometers and chromatographic systems, providing the full suite of ionization and separation options that are capable of dealing with all sample types and a wide array of client demands. Ionization methods available include ESI, APCI, APPI, DART, and AP-MALDI, all of which are capable of operating in both the positive and negative ion modes. Samples are generally run by the facility staff, and the results are provided as electronic data files. In special circumstances, an individual researcher who makes frequent use of a particular spectrometer may receive training and become authorized to run samples personally. Such authorized users then often run samples for other members of their own research group to reduce the pressure on the facility staff. If you are an external user seeking to use Merkert CMS facilities, please contact Mr. Marek Domin to discuss your project. Mass Spectrometry Sample Preparation Mass Spectrometry Submission Form External Mass Spectrometry Request Form Interferences & Contaminants Encountered in Modern Mass Spectrometry Please note that all work performed in BC core facilities and recharge centers should always be appropriately acknowledged. If you are publishing or presenting data acquired in BC core facilities and recharge centers, please include the following statement in the Acknowledgement section of your manuscript/poster/presentation, "The authors would like to thank the Boston College <insert facility name> for assistance with the work presented in this paper/poster/presentation*." * Delete as appropriate Complete Facility Description 1. Advion Expression CMS TThe expression CMS is a single quadrupole mass spectrometer, equipped with ESI and APCI probes, switchable with minimal effort. The instrument has a mass range of m/z 10 to m/z 1,200, and a resolution of 0.5-0.7 m/z, units at 1000 m/z, over the entire acquisition range. In Full scan mode the CMS has sensitivity for Reserpine of 100pg and in SIM mode of 10pg, with a 5μl sample injection volume of 100μl/min. 2. JEOL AccuTOF DART The JEOL AccuTOF, configured with a new Direct Analysis in Real Time (DART) ion source, represents a significant breakthrough in mass spectrometry. It is the first mass spectrometer to allow the analysis of solids, liquids and gaseous samples at atmospheric pressure and ground potential by simply placing the sample between the DART and the mass spectrometer. No solvents or sample preparation are required. The system design results in high throughput with no carry over, even with neat polyethylene glycol (PEG). The DART can even analyze samples directly from a variety of surfaces such as concrete, currency, food, pills, clothing, and TLC plates. The AccuTOF DART combination achieves high specificity through high resolution. Exact mass measurements together with precise isotopic abundances can rapidly identify unknown compounds by their elemental compositions. The DART ion source is based on the reactions of excited-state species with reagent molecules and polar or non-polar analytes. It is free of the limitations that are common to other atmospheric pressure ion sources, which require direct exposure of gaseous or vaporized liquid samples to elevated temperatures and electrical potentials, ultraviolet irradiation, laser radiation, or a high-velocity gas stream. DART does not alter the sample in any way, nor does it expose the user to a potentially harmful substance or dangerous situation. DART Applications 3. Agilent 6220 Time-of-Flight LC/MS The Agilent 6220 TOF LC/MS delivers exceptional analytical performance, including 2-ppm mass accuracy, and is ideal for protein and metabolite profiling. The powerful combination of resolving power and high mass accuracy allows identification of impurities in complex matrices faster and with greater confidence than with other methods. The instrument has a variety of ion source ESI, APCI, APPI and AP-MALDI meeting the widest range of applications. The atmospheric pressure photoionization (APPI) source is especially useful for analyzing compounds that ionize poorly by ESI and APCI. It uses a krypton lamp that emits photons at energy levels high enough to ionize compounds with a UV chromophore, but low enough to minimize the ionization of air and common HPLC solvents. Relatively low ionization energy means the APPI source causes minimal fragmentation and generates mostly molecular ions and protonated molecules. The atmospheric pressure matrix assisted laser desorption ionization (AP-MALDI) source provides fast, easy, and ultrasensitive analysis for samples that do not need online separation. It is ideal for protein identification and confirmation using peptide mass fingerprinting (PMF). Coupled to the mass spectrometer, a 1200 series rapid resolution LC system offers a unique combination of flexibility, resolution and speed. Benefits include the ability to run both rapid resolution and conventional HPLC methods on the same chromatography system, which supports both standard and narrow bore columns. Rapid resolution, in turn, offers up to 60% higher resolution than conventional HPLC, with approximately 20 times faster analysis time, compared to standard HPLC. 4. Agilent 6460 Triple Quad The 6460 Triple Quad MS is a liquid chromatograph triple quadrupole mass spectrometer that performs MS/MS using three sets of parallel rods (in this case, quadrupole, hexapole, quadrupole). The first quadrupole separates ions into precursor ions that are fragmented in the hexapole into product ions, which are separated by the second quadrupole. Often, two or more precursor ions and their product ions are monitored in sequence in MRM (multiple reaction monitoring) mode. You can monitor up to 4000 MRM transitions by using Dynamic MRM. The Bruker Autoflex Max The Bruker Autoflex Max MALDI-TOF mass spectrometer can analyze ions over a wide m/z range, enabling analysis of a broad spectrum of molecules, from smaller molecules, for example lipids and peptides, up to polymers and intact proteins larger than 100 kDa. With their PAN panoramic focusing and new 10 bit digitizer, peak resolution is maintained, and enhances dynamic range for a more complete view of low abundance sample components. In MALDI MS imaging applications, this expansion of dynamic range can be invaluable for complex samples such as tissue, but also beneficial for all applications, including direct TLC-MALDI, and polymer characterization. GELFrEE 8100 Fractionation Station The compact bench top GELFrEE 8100 Fractionation Station provides specified voltage to each of eight independent channels and pauses for fraction collection. Using the touchscreen interface, the fractionation sequence is defined or selected, permitting broad mass range analyte fractionation or target protein enrichment in accordance with the user’s requirements. During operation, the touchscreen interface provides feedback. Marek Domin, MSc FRSC CChem CSci Director, Mass Spectrometry Center Mr. Marek Domin joined the Chemistry Department at Boston College in August 2005. A native of England, Mr. Domin worked at the School of Pharmacy in London for ten years as part a large mass spectrometry group. He obtained his M.Sc. degree in chemical research from Birkbeck College, where he used capillary electrophoresis, as an alternative to gas chromatography – mass spectrometry for the detection of modified DNA bases by hydroxyl radicals. During his graduate studies, he carried out research into the characterization of micro-organisms using MALDI-TOF. Mr. Domin has been elected to the Royal Society of Chemistry, Editorial Board, for their "New Developments in Mass Spectrometry" book series, along with Professors Juan Garcia-Reyes and Frank Sobott. His research interests include the application of mass spectrometry as a routine tool for chemistry/chemical biology; exploring new research applications for mass spectrometry; reaction monitoring by mass spectrometry; and the use of open air ionization methods for the analysis of pharmaceutical, biological, and chemical analysis. “Ambient Ionization Mass Spectrometry” edited by Marek Domin Link to Publications Mass Spectrometry Center Marek Domin, M.Sc. Director Merkert Chemistry Center 2609 Beacon Street Chestnut Hill MA 02467-3808 Work: 617.552.3077 Mobile: 617-895-7739 Email: domin@bc.edu Back To Top Back To Top Vice Provost for Research Boston College, Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 vproffice@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College