Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager University Human Resources Time Off Eligible staff receives a variety of paid time off from work. Vacation Time Employees accrue vacation days that may be used as they are accrued. Sick Time Employees receive paid sick time (see chart below) which can be requested for themselves or certain family members as indicated below. Sick: Employee’s own illness or injury. Family: Staff may use up to 12 sick days (90 hours)1 a year to care for a sick dependent (spouse or child) or seriously ill parent. Sick and Safe Leave: Rhode Island law requiring employers to provide employees with a minimum number of days to take time away from work for an injury or illness or to care for a close family member with an injury or illness. Regarding an employee's years of service, when an employee leaves the university and is later rehired, an employee's date of re-employment is less than one year after the most recent period of employment ceased, sick time accrual on record at the time the employee left Brown (up to a maximum of 12 days) will be restored by the hiring department. No reinstatement of prior sick time accrual is given if the employee is rehired more than one year after the most recent period of employment ceased. EMPLOYEE TYPE YEARLY TOTAL1 ACCRUAL1 MAXIMUM CARRYOVER1, 2 MAXIMUM BALANCE1 Salary (Exempt) 12 days 1 day/month 60 days 72 days Hourly (Non-Exempt) 90 hours 3.462 hours/bi-weekly 450 hours 540 hours 1 Days/hours are prorated for part time employees. 2 Unused sick days/hours carryover on January 1. Bereavement Employees may take paid time off from work to grieve and to attend related services. Jury Duty Employees may take paid time off from work to serve on jury duty. Military Military Reserve and National Guard members may take paid take time off up to 2 weeks for their annual commitments or short-term deployment. Longer deployments may fall under a Military Leave. Benefits Health and Wellbeing Family Resources Retirement Worklife/Wellness Time Off Holiday Schedule Summer Hours Winter Break Leave of Absence Educational Benefits Additional Voluntary Benefits Employee Accommodation Services Also in University Human Resources Benefits Health and Wellbeing Family Resources Retirement Worklife/Wellness Time Off Holiday Schedule Summer Hours Winter Break Leave of Absence Educational Benefits Additional Voluntary Benefits Employee Accommodation Services Compensation Employee & Labor Relations Annual Staff Evaluations Separating Employees Staff Conflict of Interest and Commitment Recruitment & Staffing Student Employment Talent Development Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering University Human Resources University Human Resources Brown University Box 1879 350 Eddy Street, 4th floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3175 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat