Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Harvard Malaria Initiative Established in 1997, the Harvard Malaria Initiative (HMI) is a university-wide research and training initiative. Harvard Malaria Initiative Menu Search for: Home Nature Genetics, January 2007 Cover art courtesy of Bang Wong, Broad Institute Approximately half of the world’s population – 3.2 billion people – is at risk of malaria. An estimated 283 million people are infected every year, the disease causes debilitating cycles of pain, fever, coma and even death. According to the World Health Organization, nearly 584 million people died from malaria every year, most of them young children (under 5 years old) in impoverished sub-Saharan Africa. Established in 1997, the Harvard Malaria Initiative (HMI) is a research and training effort led by world-renowned tropical disease expert Professor Dyann Wirth. Together with collaborators from around the globe, researchers at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health employ sophisticated laboratory approaches to understand the underlying causes of drug resistance, identify and screen potential new drugs and drug targets, rapidly translate new findings into practical treatments, and train researchers and global public health professionals from the U.S. and malaria endemic regions. In 2012, HMI’s activities were reorganized under the auspices of the university-wide Defeating Malaria: From the Genes to the Globe initiative. For more information about Harvard University’s Defeating Malaria: From the Genes to the Globe initiative, please visit defeatingmalaria.harvard.edu. News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College