Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About Us Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Information History People Virtual Tour Administration Employment Give to Rosenstiel School Mission Rosenstiel Award Contact Us Academic Departments Atmospheric Sciences Environmental Science and Policy Marine Biology and Ecology Marine Geosciences Ocean Sciences Research Centers Projects Publications Research Resources Seminars Students Undergraduate Studies Master of Professional Science Graduate Programs Student Directory Student Resources Apply News & Events Community & Giving Alumni Give to Rosenstiel Events Calendar Frontiers Newsletter Internships and Jobs Outreach Sea Secrets About Us Academic Departments Research Students News & Events Community & Giving Search Centers Resources Aplysia Broad Key Research Station Bulletin of Marine Science Center for Computational Science Dive Office Facilities Management F.G. Walton Smith Vessel Helicopter Observation Platform Hurricane Hub Information Technology Marine Invertebrate Museum Library Little Salt Spring Scientific Dive Training Facility SUSTAIN Seminars Projects Publications About Us About Us Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Information History People Virtual Tour Administration Employment Give to Rosenstiel School Mission Rosenstiel Award Contact Us Academic Departments Atmospheric Sciences Environmental Science and Policy Marine Biology and Ecology Marine Geosciences Ocean Sciences Research Centers Projects Publications Research Resources Seminars Students Undergraduate Studies Master of Professional Science Graduate Programs Student Directory Student Resources Apply News & Events Community & Giving Alumni Give to Rosenstiel Events Calendar Frontiers Newsletter Internships and Jobs Outreach Sea Secrets Centers Resources Aplysia Broad Key Research Station Bulletin of Marine Science Center for Computational Science Dive Office Facilities Management F.G. Walton Smith Vessel Helicopter Observation Platform Hurricane Hub Information Technology Marine Invertebrate Museum Library Little Salt Spring Scientific Dive Training Facility SUSTAIN Seminars Projects Publications About Us Academic Departments Research Students News & Events Community & Giving Home Research Resources AAA Resources Centers Resources Aplysia Broad Key Research Station Bulletin of Marine Science Center for Computational Science Dive Office Facilities Management F.G. Walton Smith Vessel Helicopter Observation Platform Hurricane Hub Information Technology Marine Invertebrate Museum Library Little Salt Spring Scientific Dive Training Facility SUSTAIN Seminars Projects Publications GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Aplysia Founded by the NIH’s National Center of Research Resources in 1995, the National Resource for Aplysia is the only place in the world where Aplysia californica are cultured and raised for research purposes. Broad Key The 63-acre island research station allows faculty and students to conduct important research from atmospheric science to marine biology to help us better understand the Florida Keys and beyond. Bulletin of Marine Science The Bulletin of Marine Science is an open access journal on research about the world's oceans published by the Rosenstiel School. Center for Computational Science A leading high-performance computing center providing a cyber infrastructure that addresses major research challenges for faculty, students and science. Dive Safety Office The Rosenstiel School's Scientific Diving Program (SDP) is dedicated to the safe practice, training, and support of underwater scientific research. Facilities Management Operations and manintenance for all facilities, campus infrastructure, energy systems, seawater life support systems, and environmental services on our Virginia Key and Richmond campuses. F.G. Walton Smith Vessel Named in honor of the School's founder, the R/V F.G. Walton Smith, is a research catamaran specially designed and equipped for tropical oceanography. The 96-foot vessel's shallow draft enables it to explore shallow environments such as reefs, mangroves and grassbeds. Helicopter Observation Platform The Helicopter Observation Platform (HOP) is a one-of-a-kind resource that is ideal for atmospheric sampling and remote sensing observations. Hurricane Hub Resources for the hurricane science community and the public on active tropical systems, such as tropical depressions, tropical storms, and hurricanes. We work to further our understanding of hurricanes to protect life and property. Information Technology Information Technology manages the Computing Facility to support research and administrative computing for faculty, students, and staff on the Rosenstiel campus. Invertebrate Museum The Marine Invertebrate Museum is an internationally recognized, CITES-certified research museum for Atlantic tropical marine invertebrates. Library Knowledge is power! Browse the Rosenstiel School’s Library of marine and atmospheric research and to learn more about the rare and special collections housed on campus. Little Salt Spring This sinkhole, once an oasis for seasonal hunters and gatherers during prehistoric times, is now an underwater archeological and ecological preserve. Its location 10 miles from the Gulf of Mexico makes it an ideal place for research and scientific dive training. Scientific Dive Training Facility The Rosenstiel School’s Scientific Dive Training Facility enhances the school’s capability in underwater research and education by training scientists and students with the necessary scientific diving skills and technology. SUSTAIN SUSTAIN has the capability to test three-dimensional coupled wind-waves and surge and their combined impacts on structures in conditions as extreme as a land-falling Category 5 hurricane. The laboratory exists as a unique resource for fundamental studies on air-sea interactions, wave dynamics, and boundary layer turbulence while providing an experimental test-bed for model development. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science 4600 Rickenbacker Causeway Miami, FL 33149-1031 305-421-4000 305-421-4000 Resources Give to Rosenstiel School About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Rosenstiel School Campus Map UM Campus Map Parking & Transportation Shuttle Schedule Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram social-linkedin social-google-plus Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices