Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary INTERSCHOOL OR INTERCOLLEGE PROGRAMS BIOENGINEERING Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 BIOEN 215 Introduction to Bioengineering Problem Solving (3) Alyssa C Taylor Introduces bioengineering through a problem solving approach. Topics include: creative problem solving techniques, self-directed inquiry, engineering ethics, social constraints, and engineering design process. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 215 BIOEN 217 MATLAB Fundamentals for Bioengineers (1) Christopher Neils Introduction to scientific programming, using both standard programming methods and MATLAB-specific strategies. Intended as preparation for the Bioengineering core sequence. Applications include curve fitting, simulations, ODE solutions, and image processing fundamentals, executed as in-class tutorials and final project. Prerequisite: either CSE 142, CSE 160, or AMATH 301, which may be taken concurrently. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 217 BIOEN 290 Guided Independent Studies on Transformative Science (4) NW G. POLLACK Intensive laboratory experience mixed with lectures, readings, and discussions aimed at achieving deep understanding of scientific approach, particularly the nature of paradigm shifts, role of governmental support and management of science, power of orthodoxy, role of challenger, and fate of unpopular scientific views. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 290 BIOEN 299 Introduction to Bioengineering (1) G. POLLACK Lectures on the various aspects of bioengineering; orientation in bioengineering studies and practice. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 299 BIOEN 315 Biochemical Molecular Engineering (3) V. Daggett, D. Ratner Introduces the requisite organic, physical, and biochemistry for incoming bioengineers to understand biological systems at the molecular level. Prerequisite: CHEM 223, CHEM 237 or CHEM 335; BIOL 200, which may be taken concurrently. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 315 BIOEN 316 Biomedical Signals and Sensors (4) Christopher Neils Introduces the sources, detection, and processing of signals in medical instrumentation. Includes analog and digital signal processing in the time and frequency domains. Emphasizes component strengths and limitations, to develop systems that improve safety, accuracy, and reliability. Co-requisite: BIOEN 317 Prerequisite: either AMATH 301, both BIOEN 217 and CSE 142, or both BIOEN 217 and CSE 160; either PHYS 122 or PHYS 142; and either MATH 136, MATH 207, or AMATH 351, any of which may be taken concurrently. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 316 BIOEN 317 Biomedical Signals and Sensors Laboratory (2) A. Yazdan-Shahmorad Uses computational and experimental projects covering methods to acquire, process, and analyze signals from physiological and biochemical origins. Co-requisite: BIOEN 315 and BIOEN 316. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 317 BIOEN 325 Biotransport I (4) Ying Zheng Introduces momentum and heat transport in medical and biological systems. Examines how differential and control-volume analyses produce ordinary and partial differential equations; develops analytical and computational solution methods. Prerequisite: either AMATH 301, both BIOEN 217 and CSE 142, or both BIOEN 217 and CSE 160; either MATH 136, MATH 207, or AMATH 351; and either PHYS 122 or PHYS 142. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 325 BIOEN 326 Solid and Gel Mechanics (4) Wendy E Thomas Introduces solid mechanics and interactions of biological structures and medical materials. Emphasizes the relationships between composition, structure, properties, and performance of metals and ceramics, synthetic and natural macromolecules, cells, tissues, and self assembling systems. Prerequisite: either CHEM 162, CHEM 164, or CHEM 165; either PHYS 122 or PHYS 142; and a minimum grade of 2.0 in BIOEN 315. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 326 BIOEN 327 Fluids and Materials Laboratory (2) C. NEILS Practical exploration of the behavior of fluids and soft materials that occur in biological systems and biomedical devices; and the interaction between cells and their environment. Includes methods of measurement, analysis, and design. Co-requisite: BIOEN 325 and BIOEN 326. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 327 BIOEN 335 Biotransport II (3) J. BRYERS Studies the principles of combined mass transport in homogeneous and heterogeneous reaction systems as applied to biological processes. Introduces chemical and biochemical reaction kinetics, methods of evaluating kinetic parameters for reaction rate data, and prediction of the performance of biological and biochemical processes. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in BIOEN 325. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 335 BIOEN 336 Bioengineering Systems and Control (3) Herbert M Sauro Reviews linear and nonlinear systems analysis and control system design and biological and medical applications. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in BIOEN 327; and either MATH 136, MATH 208, or AMATH 352. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 336 BIOEN 337 Mass Transport and Systems Laboratory (2) Alyssa C Taylor Uses computational and experimental laboratory exercises to demonstrate time- and space-dependent linear and nonlinear systems with specific emphasis on bioengineering application. Prerequisite: BIOEN 327; BIOEN 335 and BIOEN 336, which must be taken concurrently; and either STAT 311, STAT 390, Q SCI 381, or IND E 315, which may be taken concurrently. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 337 BIOEN 345 Failure Analysis and Human Physiology (4) Michael Regnier, Marta Scatena, Suzie H Pun Applies engineering analysis to understand human physiology of the engineering of solutions to medical and biological problems. Includes laboratory. Prerequisite: BIOL 220; a minimum grade of 2.0 in either of BIOEN 215 or ENGR 115; a minimum grade of 2.0 in BIOEN 335; a minimum grade of 2.0 in BIOEN 336; and a minimum grade of 2.0 in BIOEN 337. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 345 BIOEN 400 Fundamentals of Bioengineering Design (3) Patrick Boyle Preparatory project-based course that develops understanding of the engineering design process and incorporates modern tools and methodologies for developing innovative health technologies. Prerequisite: BIOEN 337; either STAT 311, STAT 390, Q SCI 381, or IND E 315; BIOL 220; and either PHYS 122 or PHYS 142. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 400 BIOEN 401 Bioengineering Capstone Proposal (1) P. Yager Teaches proposal-writing principles and guides the development and planning of individually-based senior capstone projects. Prerequisite: BIOEN 337; STAT/MATH 390 or IND E 315; BIOL 180, 200, 220; PHYS 121, 122. Co-requisites: BIOEN 400 Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 401 BIOEN 402 Bioengineering Capstone Research and Design ([2-6]-, max. 10) Independent senior design project. Prerequisite: BIOEN 401. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 402 BIOEN 403 Bioengineering Capstone Research (2-, max. 4) Independent senior research project. Prerequisite: BIOEN 401. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 403 BIOEN 404 Bioengineering Team Design I (3) C. Neils First course in team design project course sequence. Prerequisite: BIOEN 400. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 404 BIOEN 405 Bioengineering Team Design II (4) A. TAYLOR AMOS Second course in team design project course sequence. Prerequisite: BIOEN 404. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 405 BIOEN 410 Bioengineering Honors Seminar (1) Service-learning for departmental honors students. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 410 BIOEN 415 Bioconjugate Engineering (4) D. Ratner Applies bioconjugate and molecular engineering methods for use in nanotechnology, drug delivery, biomaterials, diagnostics, medical devices, and biomedical research. Students learn how to engineer molecular and macromolecular systems using versatile bioconjugate techniques applicable to both industry and academia. Prerequisite: BIOEN 315, CHEM 221, CHEM 224, CHEM 239, or CHEM 337 Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 415 BIOEN 420 Medical Imaging (4) Chun Yuan Various medical imaging modalities (x-rays, CT, MRI, ultrasound, PET, SPECT optical imaging, etc.) and their applications in medicine and biology. Extends basic concepts of signal processing (BIOEN 303) to the two and three dimensions relevant to imaging physics, image reconstruction, image processing, and visualization. Prerequisite: either BIOEN 316 or E E 235; either MATH 136, MATH 208, or AMATH 352; and either CSE 142 or AMATH 301. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 420 BIOEN 423 Introduction to Synthetic Biology (3) Studies mathematical modeling of transcription, translation, regulation, and metabolism in cell; computer aided design methods for synthetic biology; implementation of information processing, Boolean logic and feedback control laws with genetic regulatory networks; modularity, impedance matching and isolation in biochemical circuits; and parameter estimation methods. Prerequisite: either MATH 136, MATH 207, MATH 307, AMATH 351, or CSE 311; and either MATH 208, MATH 308, or AMATH 352. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 476/CSE 486/E E 423. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 423 BIOEN 424 Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology (3) Covers advanced concepts in system and synthetic biology. Includes kinetics, modeling, stoichiometry, control theory, metabolic systems, signaling, and motifs. All topics are set against problems in synthetic biology. Prerequisite: E E 423/BIOEN 423/CHEM E 476/CSE 486. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 477/CSE 487/E E 424. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 424 BIOEN 425 Laboratory Methods in Synthetic Biology (4) Designs and builds transgenic bacterial using promoters and genes taken from a variety of organisms. Uses construction techniques including recombination, gene synthesis, and gene extraction. Evaluates designs using sequencing, fluorescence assays, enzyme activity assays, and single cell studies using time-lapse microscopy. Prerequisite: E E 423/BIOEN 423/CHEM E 476/CSE 486; and either CHEM 142, CHEM 143, or CHEM 145. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 478/CSE 488/E E 425. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 425 BIOEN 436 Quantitative Physiology (3) Hao Yuan Kueh Develops a foundation of human physiology by examining the homeostasis of vital parameters within the body, and the physiological properties of human cells, tissue, and organs. Recommended: MATH 207 or AMATH 351; courses in ordinary differential equations; probability theory; introductory programming; and introductory cell and molecular biology. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 436 BIOEN 437 Computational Systems Biology (4) Herbert M Sauro, Joseph L Hellerstein Application of modeling in systems biology. Basic modeling techniques, standards and model repositories, model fitting, model selection and confidence estimates, uncertainty quantification, ensemble modeling and a term long modeling game. Prerequisite: either MATH 207 or AMATH 351; either MATH 208 or AMATH 352; and either CSE 142, CSE 160, or AMATH 301; recommended: BIOL 180 and BIOL 200. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 437 BIOEN 440 Introduction to Biomechanics (4) J. SANDERS Presents the mechanical behavior of tissues in the body and the application to design of prostheses. Tissues studies include bone, skin, fascia, ligaments, tendons, heart valves, and blood vessels. Discussion of the structure of these tissues and their mechanical response to different loading configurations. An important part of the class is a final project. Offered: jointly with M E 445; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 440 BIOEN 447 Fundamentals of Magnetic Resonance and Ultrasound Imaging (4) M. Averkiou Principles and uses of biomedical imaging with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and ultrasound are presented from an engineering viewpoint. Topics include the physics of MRI and ultrasound, principles of image formation, clinical applications, and the technology supporting important modes of modern imaging equipment. Prerequisite: BIOEN 316 or BIOEN 317. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 447 BIOEN 449 Therapeutic and Diagnostic Ultrasound (4) M. AVERKIOU Fundamentals of ultrasound leading to real-time ultrasound imaging; sound beams and signals, transducers, arrays and array beamforming; ultrasound interaction with tissue; Doppler and Color-flow; nonlinear imaging and contrast agents. Ultrasound bioeffects and therapeutic ultrasound: thermal therapies, HIFU, hyperthermia and BIO heat equation; cavitation, lithotripsy; drug delivery. Elastography, photoacoustic imaging. Prerequisite: BIOEN 316 or BIOEN 317. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 449 BIOEN 451 Optical Coherence Tomography (4) Ruikang Wang Describes the basic physics and engineering principles of optical coherence tomography, and rapid development of imaging applications in medicine and biology. Extends basic concepts of signal processing and instrumentation to imaging physics (optics), image reconstruction, image processing, and visualization. Prerequisite: either BIOEN 316 or E E 235; and either MATH 136, MATH 208, or AMATH 352; recommended: Contemporary Light Microscopy and Biophotonics Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 451 BIOEN 454 Bioengineering Solutions to Improve the Health of Families Worldwide (1) I&S, DIV Alexis L Kaushansky Seminar series that engages students in interdisciplinary discussions about global health. Explores how bioengineering approaches contribute to (1) the study of problems of global health importance, (2) the development of diagnostics, and (3) the discovery of interventional strategies to improve human health. Emphasizes collaboration between students and researchers with backgrounds in infectious disease, basic science, and bioengineering. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with G H 454; A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 454 BIOEN 455 BioMEMS (4) Albert Folch Introduction to BioMEMS. State-of-the-art techniques in patterning biomolecules, machining three-dimensional microstructures and building microfluidic devices. Various biomedical problems that can be addressed with microfabrication technology and the engineering challenges associated with it. Biweekly labs. Prerequisite: BIOEN 316. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 455 BIOEN 457 Advanced Molecular Bioengineering (4) P. STAYTON Fundamentals of molecular recognition: thermodynamics, forces, kinetics. Manipulation of recognition processes for current molecular bioengineering research and development. Fundamental physical chemistry of molecular recognition in the context of biomedicine. Therapeutics based on cells. Prerequisite: either BIOEN 315 and BIOEN 335. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 457 BIOEN 460 Neural Engineering (3) Azadeh Yazdan-Shahmorad, Chet T Moritz Introduces the field of Neural Engineering: overview of neurobiology, recording and stimulating the nervous system, signal processing, machine learning, powering and communicating with neural devices, invasive and non-invasive brain-machine interfaces, spinal interfaces, smart prostheses, deep-brain stimulators, cochlear implants and neuroethics. Heavy emphasis on primary literature. Prerequisite: either BIOL 130, BIOL 162, or BIOL 220; and either MATH 208, AMATH 301, or AMATH 352. Offered: jointly with E E 460; A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 460 BIOEN 461 Neural Engineering Tech Studio (4) Chet T Moritz, Azadeh Yazdan-Shahmorad Neural engineering design and translational engineering. Groups design, build and present a neural engineering prototype project to a panel of industry judges. Prerequisite: BIOEN 460/E E 460. Offered: jointly with E E 461. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 461 BIOEN 463 Optogenetics (3) Andre Berndt Overview of optogenetics, which utilizes light-activated ion channels and fluorescent proteins to control and monitor neuronal activity through remote light stimulation in intact brain tissue. Includes (1) molecular basis, (2) tools and instrumentation, (3) experimental design, and (4) application range of optogenetic approaches. Builds a robust foundation for designing contemporary optogenetic experiments. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 463 BIOEN 466 Neural Computation and Engineering Laboratory (4) NW Amy Orsborn Introduces neural recording and quantitative analysis techniques to students with a background in quantitative methods. Prerequisite: either BIOL 130, BIOL 162, BIOL 220, AMATH 342; and either MATH 208, AMATH 301, or AMATH 352. ; recommended: courses in scientific computing and matrix manipulations in Matlab; and courses in neural signal processing and data analysis. Offered: jointly with E E 466. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 466 BIOEN 467 Biochemical Engineering (3) F. BANEYX Application of basic chemical engineering principles to biochemical and biological process industries such as fermentation, enzyme technology, and biological waste treatment. Rapid overview of relevant microbiology, biochemistry, and molecular genetics. Design and analysis of biological reactors and product recovery operations. Prerequisite: CHEM E 340; either CHEM 223, CHEM 237, or CHEM 335. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 467; W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 467 BIOEN 468 Real-Time Biosignal Processing (3) C. Neils Lab-based introduction to techniques for real-time signal acquisition, processing, and output, emphasizing software as an interface between user and electronic circuits. Students write programs for implementation both in graphical programming environments and in portable microprocessor platforms. In-depth discussion of hardware specifications and implications for circuit design. Prerequisite: Either BIOEN 316, or E E 215 and E E 235. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 468 BIOEN 470 Systems Immunology and Immunoengineering (3) Hao Yuan Kueh Explores current progress towards a quantitative, systems-level understanding of immune system function. Topics include sensitivity and selectivity in immune receptor signaling, cell-cell coordination by cytokine communication, and cell engineering for immunotherapy. Prerequisite: MATH 207 or AMATH 351. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 470 BIOEN 472 Biosensors for Cancer (4) Albert Folch Introduces the broad field of biosensors for cancer diagnostics. Recommended: basic cancer biology, basic organic chemistry, basic materials science. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 472 BIOEN 474 Immunoengineering (3) K. Woodrow Covers cell and tissues of immune system; lymphocyte activation and specificity; cell biology of antigen processing and preservation; and effector mechanisms. Includes discussion of concepts in theoretical immunology used to describe viral dynamics and the dynamics of immune responses. Students present case studies in the pathogenesis of immunologically mediated diseases. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 474 BIOEN 475 Global Health Technology: Molecular Diagnostics (4) Barry R. Lutz Teaches engineering principles, tools, and technologies needed to practice or develop nucleic acid (DNA/RNA) diagnostics and their context in global health. Recommended: Advanced Engineering, Chemistry or math background. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 475 BIOEN 481 Engineering Cell Biology (3) Hongxia Fu Introduces engineering approaches for analysis and control of cell structure and function, and application of such technologies in cell biology studies. Covers the basics of cell biology, engineering cellular microenvironments, as well as effects of external engineering stimuli on cellular processes, which have significant implications in various diseases such as cancer, neuromuscular disease, and cardiovascular disease. Prerequisite: either CHEM 142, CHEM 143, or CHEM 145; and BIOL 200; recommended: Introductory Biology, General Chemistry View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 481 BIOEN 482 Cardiac Bioengineering (3) Michael Regnier Students discuss, present, and write literature reviews of scientific papers on the latest techniques, protocols and treatments being developed to treat heart failure and vascular diseases. Guest lecturers provide a clinical perspective, discuss clinical needs, and present their ongoing research and development projects. Prerequisite: BIOL 220; recommended: BIOEN 345. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 482 BIOEN 483 Vascular Biology and Engineering (3) Y. Zheng Vascular Engineering has emerged to provide strategies for generating vascular grafts with long-term patency, and vascularized tissues for regenerative medicine and disease modeling. Focuses on understanding the structure and function of different vascular beds in vivo, and learning the cutting edge research and engineering principles in vascular biology and engineering. Recommended: Introductory Biology, General Mechanics, and Cell Biology Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 483 BIOEN 485 Computational Bioengineering (4) Wendy E Thomas Introduction to computational and mathematical analysis of biological systems, including control, stochastic, and transport systems. Lectures and laboratory sessions emphasize biochemical systems, but also include electrical, mechanical, and fluidic systems. Prerequisite: BIOEN 335; and either AMATH 351 or MATH 207. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 485 BIOEN 486 Tissue Engineering (3) D. Kim Tissue structure and function, scaffold design, applications to specialized tissues and organs. Prerequisite: BIOEN 315. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 486 BIOEN 487 Bioengineering and Nanotechnology (3) X. Gao Explores basic concepts of nanoscience and the current literature, focusing on practical applications for nanotechnology in biology and medicine. Prerequisite: CHEM 142, CHEM 144, or CHEM 145; BIOL 180. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 487 BIOEN 488 Computational Protein Design (4) V. Daggett Explores methods in protein engineering, emphasizing biomedical and biotechnological applications. Includes molecular visualization, homology modeling, molecular dynamics, computational protein design, and evaluation of designs. Introduces current research in subject area. Students learn to use and apply computational tools to investigate design problems. Prerequisite: BIOEN 315. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 488 BIOEN 489 Advanced Tissue Engineering (3) Develops advanced knowledge in tissue engineering. Primarily through critical assessment of seminal publications in areas such as biomaterials, biofabrication, organ decellularization, cellular self-organization, organoids, and regenerative medicine. Students identify groundbreaking studies in tissue engineering and communicate the impact to other scientists and the public. Prerequisite: BIOEN 486. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 489 BIOEN 490 Engineering Materials for Biomedical Applications (3) J. Bryers Combined application of principles of physical chemistry and biochemistry, materials engineering, to biomedical problems and products. Applications include implants and medical devices, drug delivery systems, cell culture processes, diagnostics, and bioseparations. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 490; A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 490 BIOEN 491 Controlled-Release Systems (3) S. PUN Mechanisms for controlled release of active agents and the development of useful drug delivery systems for this purpose. Release mechanisms considered include diffusive, convective, and erosive driving forces. Delivery routes include topical, oral, and in vivo. Some special case studies covered in detail. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 491; W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 491 BIOEN 492 Surface Analysis (3) Understanding of solid surfaces for research and development in microelectronics, catalysis, adhesion, biomaterials, science wear, and corrosion science. Newer methods available to study surfaces of materials. Electron emission spectroscopies (ESCA, Auger): ion scattering, ion spectroscopic, photon spectroscopic, and thermodynamic methods. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 458; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 492 BIOEN 493 Advanced Surface Analysis (3) Covers the latest advanced in surface analysis instrumentation and methodology, including advanced methods of biorecognition AFM, surface Plasmon resonance, x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, sum frequency generation spectroscopy, time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry, and multivariate analysis. Prerequisite: either CHEM E 458 or BIOEN 492. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 493; W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 493 BIOEN 494 Advanced Drug Delivery (3) S. PUN Provides students with an understanding of the current state of the art for advanced drug delivery. Covers the major families of biologic drugs, major challenges associated with their delivery and specific disease applications. Prerequisite: BIOEN 491. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 494 BIOEN 497 Bioengineering Education Outreach (1-2, max. 6) Work with K-12 schools or community organizations. Current science education research and instructional techniques. May involve presentations or instruction in hands-on activities. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 497 BIOEN 498 Special Topics (1-6, max. 15) Topics of current interest in the field, offered as lectures, conferences, or laboratory. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 498 BIOEN 499 Special Projects (1-6, max. 24) Individual undergraduate bioengineering projects (research or independent study) under the supervision of an instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 499 BIOEN 501 Molecular Bioengineering (4) Examines advanced topics in molecular diffusion, reaction kinetics, and convective transport modeling as applied to biological systems. Includes mathematical analysis and numerical simulation techniques applied to: Non-Fickian diffusion, rotational versus translational diffusion, immobilized enzyme kinetics, drug release, and gene delivery. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 501 BIOEN 502 Cellular Bioengineering (4) Covers basic principles of cell biology (including cell structure, function, and signaling), recombinant RNA/DNA technology, and specific examples of cellular bioengineering applications including gene delivery, RNA silencing, and tissue engineering. Prerequisite: BIOEN 501. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 502 BIOEN 503 Systems Bioengineering (4) Explores whole-body or organ physiology topics from an engineering perspective. Uses various model systems to elucidate engineering principles such as feedback control and homeostatic regulation. Includes real-world examples, computer modeling, and research design approaches. Prerequisite: BIOEN 502. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 503 BIOEN 504 Introduction to Technology Commercialization (4) M. O'Donnell, B. Ratner Explores essential business, legal, engineering, and other skills necessary to take new technology from research to market. Covers intellectual property, market analysis, licensing, funding mechanisms such as venture capital, and product marketing. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 504 BIOEN 505 Biomedical Entrepreneurship (4) Explores essential business, legal, engineering, and other skills necessary to take new technology from research to market. Covers intellectual property, market analysis, licensing, funding mechanisms such as venture capital, and product marketing; introduces strategic planning, management of commercialization effort. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 505 BIOEN 506 Applying Technology Commercialization (1) Focuses knowledge of entrepreneurship within the spaces of medical devices, hardware/software, and energy, into a practical description of a potential start-up company. Corequisite: ENTRE 540. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 506 BIOEN 509 Bioengineering Departmental Seminar (1, max. 16) Research review and discussions centered on demonstrating approaches and solving scientific problems. Seminar lectures led by faculty and visiting faculty in Bioengineering and related disciplines. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 509 BIOEN 511 Biomaterials Seminar (1, max. 18) Lara J. Gamble Presentation of student research results. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 511. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 511 BIOEN 513 Current Topics in Cardiac Physiology (1, max. 3) M. REGNIER Current research in cardiac physiology. Student presentation and discussions of current research methodologies. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 513 BIOEN 515 Bioconjugate Engineering (4) D. Ratner Applies bioconjugate and molecular engineering methods for use in nanotechnology, drug delivery, biomaterials, diagnostics, medical devices, and biomedical research. Students learn how to engineer molecular and macromolecular systems using versatile bioconjugate techniques applicable to both industry and academia. Recommended: Basic organic chemistry, biochemistry, molecular engineering Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 515 BIOEN 516 Medical Imaging Seminar (1) Weekly seminars, presented by UW faculty members, researchers and graduate students from UW, other academic institutions, and industry, on image computing and medical imaging. Topics include digital video, image processing, computer graphics, video/image compression, image analysis, algorithms and systems, pattern recognition, multimedia computer architectures, and other applications. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 516 BIOEN 518 Healthcare Transformation: Forces, Directions, Implications (2) L. HUNTSMAN Introduces the history, current realities and forces driving change in healthcare and provides an opportunity to use this knowledge to evaluate contemporary attempts to innovate. Addresses implications for those involved in the science, technology, business and policy of medicine. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 518 BIOEN 520 Musculoskeletal Biomechanics (4) William R. Ledoux, Scott Telfer, Joseph M. Iaquinto A broad introduction to musculoskeletal biomechanics, i.e., applying engineering mechanics to the human body. Examines: experimental techniques; anatomy; basic structure-function relationships; and implementation into research and commercial applications. Briefly covers scientific writing and presentations, literature reviews, and regulatory considerations. Offered: jointly with M E 527. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 520 BIOEN 522 Biomechanics of Soft Tissue (3) J. SANDERS Applies soft tissue biomechanics to medical research. Develops specific biomechanical questions and experiments to address those aims or hypotheses. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 522 BIOEN 523 Introduction to Synthetic Biology (3) Studies mathematical modeling of transcription, translation, regulation, and metabolism in cell; computer aided design methods for synthetic biology; implementation of information processing, Boolean logic and feedback control laws with genetic regulatory networks; modularity, impedance matching and isolation in biochemical circuits; and parameter estimation methods. Prerequisite: either MATH 136, MATH 207, MATH 307, AMATH 351, or CSE 311; and either MATH 208, MATH 308, or AMATH 352. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 576/CSE 586/E E 523/MOLENG 525. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 523 BIOEN 524 Advanced Systems and Synthetic Biology (3) Covers advanced concepts in system and synthetic biology. Includes kinetics, modeling, stoichiometry, control theory, metabolic systems, signaling, and motifs. All topics are set against problems in synthetic biology. Prerequisite: E E 523/BIOEN 523/CHEM E 576/CSE 586/MOLENG 525. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 577/CSE 587/E E 524. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 524 BIOEN 530 Bioengineering Professional Series I: Literature Analysis (2) V. DAGGETT Skills in scientific literature analysis developed through topics in bioengineering. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 530 BIOEN 531 Bioengineering Professional Series II: Proposal Writing (2) M. SCATENA Covers grant and fellowship proposal writing. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 531 BIOEN 532 Bioengineering Professional Series III: Professional Skills Development (1) M. Averkiou Key areas of professional development related to the bioengineering field, including oral communication, management, networking, and interviewing. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 532 BIOEN 536 Quantitative Physiology (3) Hao Yuan Kueh Develops a foundation of human physiology by examining the homeostasis of vital parameters within the body, and the physiological properties of human cells, tissue, and organs. Recommended: MATH 107, AMATH 351, or equivalent; courses in ordinary differential equations; probability theory; introductory programming; and introductory cell and molecular biology. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 536 BIOEN 537 Computational Systems Biology (4) Joseph L Hellerstein, Herbert M Sauro Application of modeling in systems biology. Basic modeling techniques, standards and model repositories, model fitting, model selection and confidence estimates, uncertainty quantification, ensemble modeling and a term long modeling game. Recommended: coursework in differential equations; linear algebra; and introductory biology; and either coursework or experience coding in Python (preferred), MATLAB or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 537 BIOEN 540 Bioengineering Clinical Practicum (2) Soraya Bailey Clinical needs identification for the Master of Applied Bioengineering. Students observe diagnosis and treatment in a clinical setting to learn current practice, drivers, and constraints. Students learn to identify and communicate clinical needs not met by current technology, but with potential bioengineering design solutions. Addresses ethics, patient privacy, and medical/academic communication. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 540 BIOEN 541 Design Skills I: Clinical Needs Evaluation (4) Soraya Bailey First quarter of Design Skills sequence in Master of Applied Bioengineering. Student teams initiate design process through needs evaluation, market analysis, prior art research, identification of design specifications, and brainstorming of design concepts. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 541 BIOEN 542 Design Skills II: Clinical Needs Evaluation (4) Second quarter of Design Skills sequence. Students conceive, evaluate, and present design options to potential clinical users, utilize feedback to revise design concepts, and prepare a formal design proposal. Prerequisite: BIOEN 541 Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 542 BIOEN 543 Design Skills III: Project Implementation (4) Culmination of the three-quarter Design Skills sequence in the Master of Applied Bioengineering. Students create and test a proof-of-principle deliverables for the device or system proposed in the previous quarter, and prepare a formal business plan. Prerequisite: BIOEN 542. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 543 BIOEN 544 Advanced Clinical Design Project (1-10) Summer-long culminating design experience in which student teams generate and test a solution to meet desired clinical needs. Prerequisite: BIOEN 543 Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 544 BIOEN 546 Fundamentals of Biomedical Imaging: X-ray and Nuclear (4) P. Kinahan Explores core principles of biomedical imaging with a focus on x-ray and nuclear imaging. Fundamental concepts common to all modalities are reviewed: Multi-dimensional Fourier transforms, the imaging equation, the inverse problem, image SNR, and contrast agents. Lectures will emphasize a systems approach that is reinforced though computational mini projects using Matlab. Recommended: Signal and systems (linear systems), Fourier transforms and advanced linear algebra, scientific programming (e.g. Matlab or other languages). Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 546 BIOEN 547 Fundamentals of Magnetic Resonance and Ultrasound Imaging (4) M. Averkiou Principles and uses of biomedical imaging with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and ultrasound are presented from an engineering viewpoint. Topics include the physics of MRI and ultrasound, principles of image formation, clinical applications, and the technology supporting important modes of modern imaging equipment. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 547 BIOEN 549 Therapeutic and Diagnostic Ultrasound (4) M. Averkiou Fundamentals of ultrasound leading to real-time ultrasound imaging; sound beams and signals, transducers, arrays and array beamforming; ultrasound interaction with tissue; Doppler and Color-flow; nonlinear imaging and contrast agents. Ultrasound bioeffects and therapeutic ultrasound: thermal therapies, HIFU, hyperthermia and BIO heat equation; cavitation, lithotripsy; drug delivery. Elastography, photoacoustic imaging. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 549 BIOEN 551 Optical Coherence Tomography (4) R. Wang Describes the basic physics and engineering principles of optical coherence tomography, and rapid development of imaging applications in medicine and biology. Extends basic concepts of signal processing and instrumentation to imaging physics (optics), image reconstruction, image processing, and visualization. Recommended: Signal processing and linear systems (at a level of BIOEN 316) Mathematical skills (at a level of AMATH352) Physics level at PHYS 122 BIOEN 498/599: Contemporary Light Microscopy and Biophotonics Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 551 BIOEN 552 Microfabrication and Microfluidics (3) A. FOLCH, P. YAGER Studies the use of 2- and 3-dimensional structures in research and biomaterials, cells, and complex liquids. Focuses on micropatterning of surfaces and microfluidic chemical analytical systems. Co-requisite: BIOEN 553. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 552 BIOEN 553 Microfabrication and Microfluidics Laboratory (2) A. FOLCH, P. YAGER Studies the creation of 2- and 3-dimensional structures for use in research with biomaterials, cells, and complex liquids. Each student will fabricate at least one PDMS device and demonstrate its function. Co-requisite: BIOEN 552. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 553 BIOEN 554 Bioengineering Solutions to Improve the Health of Families Worldwide (1/2) Alexis L Kaushansky Seminar series that engages students in interdisciplinary discussions about global health. Explores how bioengineering approaches contribute to (1) the study of problems of global health importance, (2) the development of diagnostics, and (3) the discovery of interventional strategies to improve human health. Emphasizes collaboration between students and researchers with backgrounds in infectious disease, basic science, and bioengineering. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with G H 554; A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 554 BIOEN 555 Water, Nature, and Biological Function (3) G. Pollack Explores emerging concepts of water at interfaces as a new and simpler way to understand many features of chemistry, physics, and biology. Considers new understanding in cell function, energy transduction, solar energy, flow, transport, weather, green science, and other basics of nature and engineering. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 555 BIOEN 557 Advanced Molecular Bioengineering (4) P. STAYTON Covers fundamentals of molecular recognition and design: thermodynamics, dynamics, and kinetics. Includes molecular design of macromolecules, recognition processes for current molecular engineering applications in biomedicine, and therapeutics based on cells. Offered: jointly with MOLENG 515; A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 557 BIOEN 560 Neural Engineering (3) Azadeh Yazdan-Shahmorad, Chet T Moritz Introduces the field of Neural Engineering: overview of neurobiology, recording and stimulating the nervous system, signal processing, machine learning, powering and communicating with neural devices, invasive and non-invasive brain-machine interfaces, spinal interfaces, smart prostheses, deep-brain stimulators, cochlear implants and neuroethics. Heavy emphasis on primary literature. Offered: jointly with E E 560; A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 560 BIOEN 561 Neural Engineering Tech Studio (4) Azadeh Yazdan-Shahmorad, Chet T Moritz Neural engineering design and translational engineering. Groups design, build and present a neural engineering prototype project to a panel of industry judges. Prerequisite: BIOEN 560 Offered: jointly with E E 561; W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 561 BIOEN 563 Optogenetics (3) Andre Berndt Overview of optogenetics, which utilizes light-activated ion channels and fluorescent proteins to control and monitor neuronal activity through remote light stimulation in intact brain tissue. Includes (1) molecular basis, (2) tools and instrumentation, (3) experimental design, and (4) application range of optogenetic approaches. Builds a robust foundation for designing contemporary optogenetic experiments. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 563 BIOEN 566 Neural Computation and Engineering Laboratory (4) Amy Orsborn Introduces neural recording and quantitative analysis techniques to students with a background in quantitative methods. Offered: jointly with E E 564. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 566 BIOEN 568 Real-Time Biosignal Processing (3) C. Neils Lab-based introduction to techniques for real-time signal acquisition, processing, and output, emphasizing software as an interface between user and electronic circuits. Students write programs for implementation both in graphical programming environments and in portable microprocessor platforms. In-depth discussion of hardware specifications and implications for circuit design. Recommended: Basic Electrical Engineering Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 568 BIOEN 570 Systems Immunology and Immunoengineering (3) Hao Yuan Kueh Explores current progress towards a quantitative, systems-level understanding of immune system function. Topics include sensitivity and selectivity in immune receptor signaling, cell-cell coordination by cytokine communication, and cell engineering for immunotherapy. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 570 BIOEN 572 Biosensors for Cancer (4) Albert Folch Introduces the broad field of biosensors for cancer diagnostics. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 572 BIOEN 573 Biosensors and Biomedical Sensing (3) P. Yager In-depth overview of the principal types of biosensors. Topics include: how biological molecules are used in sensing, how the sensors operate, how different sensors compare, under what circumstances sensors can be useful, and the applicability of sensors to biomedical sensing. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 573 BIOEN 574 Immunoengineering (3) K. Woodrow Covers cell and tissues of immune system; lymphocyte activation and specificity; cell biology of antigen processing and preservation; and effector mechanisms. Includes discussion of concepts in theoretical immunology used to describe viral dynamics and the dynamics of immune responses. Students present case studies in the pathogenesis of immunologically mediated diseases. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 574 BIOEN 575 Global Health Technology: Molecular Diagnostics (4) Barry R. Lutz Teachers engineering principles, tools, and technologies needed to practice or develop nucleic acid (DNA/RNA) diagnostics and their context in global health. Recommended: Advanced Engineering, Chemistry or math background. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 575 BIOEN 576 Laboratory Techniques in Protein Engineering (4) Practical introduction to fundamentals of recombinant DNA technology and protein engineering. Gene design, bacterial molecular biology, genetic engineering strategy. Laboratory project focused on making site-directed protein mutations. Techniques include the Polymerase Chain Reaction, DNA sequencing, DNA cutting/splicing, protein expression. Prerequisite: background in biochemistry or molecular biology or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 576 BIOEN 577 Cell and Protein Reaction with Foreign Materials (3) Study of ways in which cell and protein interactions with foreign materials affect the biocompatibility of biomaterials. Description of phenomenology and mechanisms of protein adsorption, mammalian cell adhesion, and cell receptor biology and of methods used to study these phenomena. Surface properties of materials discussed in context of the course. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 577 BIOEN 578 Biomembranes (3) P. YAGER Develops an understanding of the molecular principles that underlie the self-assembly of surfactants into natural and model membranes; in particular, on the relationship between the chemical structure of lipid molecules and the three-dimensional aggregates that they form in water. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 578 BIOEN 579 Host Response to Biomaterials (3) C. GIACHELLI Basic cell and molecular biology of the pathologies associated with biomaterial implantation that limit bioprosthetic use, including hemostasis, infection, acute and chronic inflammation, wound healing and fibrosis, and structural alterations. Major methods for histological analysis of retrieved implants. Prerequisite: general biology, BIOEN 490 (may be taken concurrently), or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 579 BIOEN 581 Engineering Cell Biology (3) D. Kim Introduces engineering approaches for analysis and control of cell structure and function, and application of such technologies in cell biology studies. Covers the basics of cell biology, engineering cellular microenvironments, as well as effects of external engineering stimuli on cellular processes, which have significant implications in various diseases such as cancer, neuromuscular disease, and cardiovascular disease. Recommended: Introductory Biology, General Chemistry Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 581 BIOEN 582 Cardiac Bioengineering (3) Michael Regnier Students discuss, present, and write literature reviews of scientific papers on the latest techniques, protocols and treatments being developed to treat heart failure and vascular diseases. Guest lecturers provide a clinical perspective, discuss clinical needs, and present their ongoing research and development projects. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 582 BIOEN 583 Vascular Biology and Engineering (3) Y. Zheng Vascular Engineering has emerged to provide strategies for generating vascular grafts with long-term patency, and vascularized tissues for regenerative medicine and disease modeling. This course focuses on understanding the structure and function of different vascular beds in vivo, and learning the cutting edge research and engineering principles in vascular biology and engineering. Recommended: Introductory Biology, General Mechanics, and Cell Biology Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 583 BIOEN 585 Computational Bioengineering (4) W. THOMAS Introduction to computational and mathematical analysis of biological systems, including control, stochastic, and transport systems. Lectures and laboratory sessions emphasize biochemical systems, but also include electrical, mechanical, and fluidic systems. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 585 BIOEN 586 Tissue Engineering (3) D. Kim Tissue structure and function, scaffold design, applications to specialized tissues and organs. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 586 BIOEN 587 Bioengineering and Nanotechnology (3) X. Gao Explores basic concepts of nanoscience and the current literature, focusing on practical applications for nanotechnology in biology and medicine. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 587 BIOEN 588 Computational Protein Design (4) V. DAGGETT Explores methods in protein engineering, emphasizing biomedical and biotechnological applications. Includes molecular visualization, homology modeling, molecular dynamics, computational protein design, and evaluation of designs. Introduces current research in subject area. Students learn to use and apply computational tools to investigate design problems. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 588 BIOEN 589 Advanced Tissue Engineering (3) Develops advanced knowledge in tissue engineering. Primarily through critical assessment of seminal publications in areas such as biomaterials, biofabrication, organ decellularization, cellular self-organization, organoids, and regenerative medicine. Students identify groundbreaking studies in tissue engineering and communicate the impact to other scientists and the public. Recommended: BIOEN 586. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 589 BIOEN 590 Advanced Topics in Biomaterials (3) Major, controversial issues in application of synthetic materials to medical problems. Blood compatibility, bioadhesion, intraocular lenses, contact lenses, polyurethanes, biodegradation, protein adsorption, corrosion, bone fixation, new materials, artificial heart, medical device regulation. Prerequisite: BIOEN 490 or CHEM E 490. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 590. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 590 BIOEN 591 Controlled Release Systems (3) Suzie H Pun Provides students with an understanding of the current state of the art for advanced drug delivery. Covers the major families of biologic drugs, major challenges associated with their delivery and specific disease applications. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 591 BIOEN 592 Surface Analysis (3) Understanding of solid surfaces for research and development in microelectronics, catalysis, adhesion, biomaterials science, wear and corrosion science. Newer methods available to study surfaces of materials. Electron emission spectroscopies (ESCA, Auger); ion scattering, ion spectroscopic, photon spectroscopic, and thermodynamic methods. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 558. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 592 BIOEN 593 Advanced Surface Analysis (3) Covers the latest advanced in surface analysis instrumentation and methodology, including advanced methods of biorecognition AFM, surface Plasmon resonance, x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, sum frequency generation spectroscopy, time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry, and multivariate analysis. Prerequisite: either CHEM E 558 or BIOEN 592. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 593; W. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 593 BIOEN 594 Advanced Drug Delivery (3) S. PUN Provides students with an understanding of the current state of the art for advanced drug delivery. Covers the major families of biologic drugs, major challenges associated with their delivery and specific disease applications. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 594 BIOEN 598 Research Rotation (1-10, max. 30) Research rotation in the laboratories of core or adjunct faculty in the Department of Bioengineering. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 598 BIOEN 599 Special Topics in Bioengineering (1-6, max. 30) Offered at a graduate level periodically by faculty members within the Department of Bioengineering; concerns areas of research activities with current and topical interest to bioengineers. Prerequisite: undergraduate or graduate courses (or equivalent) determined individually for each special topic. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 599 BIOEN 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 600 BIOEN 601 Internship (1-10, max. 10) Bioengineering graduate internship program. Requires written report. Prerequisite: permission of supervisory committee chair. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 601 BIOEN 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 700 BIOEN 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: BIOEN 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022