Skip to content Edward P. Fitts Department ofIndustrial and Systems Engineering College of Engineering Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Program Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Program Toggle navigation About About NC State ISE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Faculty Awards Departmental Awards Fitts-Woolard Hall History Department Heads Future Students Future Students and Parents What is Industrial Engineering? Living in Raleigh FAQ Degrees Current Ph.D. Students Admissions Parents/Family Services Current Students Current Students FAQ Service Directory Curriculum Forms Degree Details Current Ph.D. Students Advising Undergraduate Research Scholarships Health Systems Engr Certificate Student Organizations Study Abroad ISE Ambassadors Alumni-Student Mentoring Program It and Design Resources Alumni Alumni 9 Ways to Partner with ISE Giving Alumni Resources Scholarships Hall of Fame Fitts Scholars and Fellows Research Research Advanced Manufacturing Health Systems Human-Systems Supply Chain and Logistics System Analytics & Optimization News ISE News Events Calendar ISE in the News Seminars Past Publications Join inGear Media People Faculty and Staff Directory Advisory Board Room Reservations FWH 2125 | Teaching Lab FWH 4101-A | Grad Conference FWH 4101-B | Grad Conference FWH 4103 | Conference Room FWH 4104 | Conference Room FWH 4125 | Conference Room FWH 4170 | Conference Room FWH 4176 | Conference Room FWH 4290 | Learning Factory FWH 4320 | Senior Design Lab FWH 4322 | Collaboratory FWH 4331-A | Grad Conference FWH 4333-A | Grad Conference FWH 4340 | CompViz Lab FWH 4361 | Conference Room Forms IT Resources Design Resources Industry Industry Partners 9 Ways to Partner with ISE Corporate Partner Program Senior Design Program myISE Search Search for: Search NC State Industrial and Systems Engineering ISE Receives Multiple National AwardsMay 25, 2022 ISE alumni, faculty and students earn multiple national awards at the IISE Annual Conference and Expo. Take me to all the ISE news Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events. The Edward P. Fitts Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering at NC State is one of only five named ISE departments in the United States and ranks among the top 15 programs in the country according to U.S. News and World Report. Tenure/Tenure Track Assistant/Associate/Full Professor The faculty in ISE at NC State invites applications for one or more tenure-track faculty positions. It is anticipated that at least one position is at the assistant professor level, although you may be considered for appointment at Associate/Full rank based on experience. Candidates are expected to have a Ph.D. degree in Industrial Engineering or a related field. I WANT TO SEE MORE ABOUT THE faculty positions In the Spotlight NEW Master of Engineering Management: Think and LEAD The Master of Engineering Management degree deepens your critical analytical, science and engineering talents — Think. It also broadens your crucial management skills — Lead. NC State’s Master of Engineering Management degree provides you the skills necessary to manage and succeed in today’s complex technical environments. NC State’s Master of Engineering Management program prepares you for the career path you want by offering seven flexible concentration tracks. It supports the job role and career goals you have in mind. Our concentration areas help you choose the skills you need for your potential job role. I WANT TO SEE MORE ABOUT THE MEM PROGRAM ISE Invites YOU to Volunteer! Volunteering time – your most valuable resource – allows you to make a difference in someone’s life. You can give back to your ISE community, help a department that helped you, and improve the education of future industrial engineers. Besides, it just feels good to volunteer! So, what is stopping you? We know you may have questions, so we made a FAQ to address your concerns. I WANT TO EXPLORE VOLUNTEERING OPPORTUNITIES Fitts-Woolard Hall is the NEW Home of ISE Show me the BUILDING Live The passage of Connect NC in March 2016, brings us closer to putting our faculty, staff, and students together with top businesses and government agencies on Centennial Campus which serves as a model for the ideal 21st-century research campus. Fitts-Woolard Hall will be the fourth academic engineering building on Centennial Campus. It will sit between the Hunt Library and Engineering Building I. It will measure 227,000 square feet It will house more than 100 classrooms and state of the art laboratories The estimated cost is $154 million I Want to Explore Fitts-Woolard Hall Alumni Resources Program ISE has launched our Alumni Resources Program. The mission of our program is to provide you, our alumni, with resources that will benefit you throughout your career. These resources include: ISE Alumni LinkedIn Group (1200+ members) NCSU Online Library Access ISE and OR Job Board Online Certifications and Professional Learning Whether you are looking to gain a competitive edge in your career or interested in networking with ISE Alumni faculty and students, the Alumni Engagement Program can help. I Want to Explore the Alumni Resources Looking for other ways to give back to the Department? Go to our 9 Ways to Partner with ISE to discover all the various ways you can make a difference. I Want to Help my Department Degrees Offered Undergraduate Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering (BSIE) Minor in Industrial Engineering Accelerated Bachelor/Master in Industrial Engineering (ABM) Graduate Master in Industrial Engineering (MIE) Master of Engineering Management (MEM) Master of Industrial Engineering/Master of Business Administration (MIE-MBA) Master of Science in Industrial Engineering (MSIE) Doctor of Philosophy in Industrial Engineering (Ph.D.) Online Degrees Master in Industrial Engineering (MIE) Master of Engineering Management (MEM) Master of Integrated Manufacturing Systems Engineering (MIMSE) Operations Research Master in Operations Research (MOR) Master of Operations Research (MSOR) Doctor of Philosophy in Operations Research (Ph.D.) Integrated Manufacturing Systems Engineering Master in Integrated Manufacturing Systems Engineering (MIMSE) I Want to Apply to NC State ISE Research Human-Systems Advanced Manufacturing Supply Chain and Logistics Health Systems Systems Analytics and Optimization Broaden Your World Student Organizations: Choose from our student organizations or other Engineering student organizations to network and learn outside the classroom. Co-op Experience: Gain hands-on job experience while pursuing your degrees, and get paid for it, through the Cooperative Education Program. Study Abroad: Engineering is a global enterprise. Many employers are looking for graduates with second languages and international exposure. Study Abroad can make that happen. Giving Donations help ISE evolve and keep pace with the latest technology. It gives our students the skills and sense of responsibility they need to make a difference in the world. Consider supporting the department today. I want to Support ISE Subscribe to Our Newsletter First Name * Required Last Name * Required Email * Required Are You a Robot? * Required I'm not a Robot Contact Us Campus Box 7906 NC State University Raleigh, NC 27695-7906 ise@ncsu.edu 919.515.2350 Phone 919.513.1908 Fax Physical Address 915 Partners Way, Room 4183 Raleigh, NC 27606 Computer Support isehelp@ncsu.edu myISE Forms Room Reservations IT Resources Design Resources Search ISE Job Board ePack Job Board Industry Faculty Student Post Your Job Directions and Parking For more information about parking on NC State’s campus, please visit the NC State’s visitor parking web page. facebook youtube twitter instagram linkedin Edward P. Fitts Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering Copyright © 2022 · NC State University · Accessibility · Privacy · University Policies · Log in NC State University North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011