Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Physics and Materials Science About Undergraduate Graduate People Research Resources News SPS Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Memphis SHOPP Information About Memphis SHOPP Fall 2015 Topics Spring 2016 Topics Spring 2015 Topics (archived) Take Action Apply Now Contact Us Seminars & Events Careers in Physics and Materials Science Follow Us Online Facebook Home Department of Physics and Materials Science Memphis SHOPP Memphis SHOPP (Saturday Hands On Physics Program) This program is not in session at this time Free Opportunity for High School Students: The program is designed to supplement the high-school physics curriculum. The program would follow courses required for the AP Physics C exam; it would consist primarily of experiments and problem solving which will be preceded with a quick overview of the chapters. The program would be led by a Faculty member at the department of physics and assisted by a graduate teaching assistant. There will be intense development in three critical areas: Fundamental conceptual development, Connection to real-world experiences through scientific inquiry and Critical thinking skills using mathematical applications and problem solving at the single-variable calculus level. With the learning cycle to be used, students will encounter engagement, exploration, explanation, extension, and evaluation. Animation and short videos will be used in some instance in order to engage students in initial activities to introduce questions before moving to exploration and explanation. This will also initiate discourse between students where opportunities to address misconceptions will often surface. The labs would predominantly be hands-on and will rely on more fundamental equipment and graphs would be plotted by hand. Occasionally, a Pasco data collection and analysis system would be used so students would be prepared for different techniques. Students will work in small groups in order to promote group work in a variety of ways beginning with experimental design and report writing. Students are expected to maintain two folders, one for the overview and another for the lab activities. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/5/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.