Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Office of the Registrar Menu Baylor>Registrar>Office Information>Staff Directory Staff Directory Office of the Registrar Office of the Registrar One Bear Place #97068 Waco, TX 76798 Phone: (254) 710-1181 Fax: (254)710-2233 PATRICIA M. AGADO Academic Scheduling Coordinator Patricia joined Baylor University in November 2018. Her role includes coordinating with academic and administrative departments for preparing the schedule of classes including section creation and current academic best practices. As well as working closely with the Center for Global engagement to coordinate course scheduling, and location accuracy of all Study Abroad programs. Patricia has an Associate’s Degree in Liberal Arts with an emphasis in Social and Behavioral Sciences from Mira Costa College in Oceanside, CA. She previously worked at the Social and Behavioral Research Institute at California State University San Marcos as a Research Assistant Supervisor and at Scripps Health in La Jolla, CA as a Health Resources Referrals Coordinator. She enjoys family time and church activities. She has five children: Amy, Gabby, Diego, Isabel and Roberto. Phone: (254) 710-8229 Email: Patricia_Agado@baylor.edu JESSICA ALFORD VA Coordinator Jessica has been at Baylor University since March 2013. She attended Baylor University as an undergraduate and completed her Bachelor of Science in Education in 2003. Her responsibilities include certifying enrollment for veterans and/or dependents of veterans, submitting updates on enrollment certifications, assisting students in the application process for benefits and completion of eligibility requirements, and providing information to prospective and current students regarding their VA benefits. Although she is not a veteran herself, Jessica’s father served in the Air Force. Her maternal grandfather was a Korean War veteran and served in the US Navy. She also has three cousins serving in the Army whom each have completed at least two tours in Iraq. Phone: (254) 710-8870 Email: Jessica_Alford@baylor.edu ASHLEIGH BAILEY Assistant University Registrar and Process Analyst Ashleigh joined the Office of the Registrar in the fall of 2014. As Assistant Registrar, she oversees the transfer articulation and degree audit areas of the office, as well as assisting with degree conferral and troubleshooting various issues related to academic records. In previous roles, she also enjoyed working with commencement, the Electronic Course Action System, military programs, and transcripts. Ashleigh holds a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, as well as a Master of Arts in Theology and a Master of Arts in Family Studies from Fuller Theological Seminary. She discovered her passion for higher education through experiences working as a campus ministry leader, student government representative, and graduate employee during her undergraduate and seminary years. Ashleigh has also experienced Baylor as a student through courses in the Higher Education and Student Affairs master's program. Ashleigh is married to Jeremiah Bailey, a PhD Candidate and lecturer in the Religion department, and they have one son. Phone: (254) 710-8833 Email: Ashleigh_Bailey@baylor.edu APRIL BENSON Assistant University Registrar and Process Analyst April has been with Baylor since 2007. April holds a Bachelor of Arts in Communication Sciences and Disorders from Baylor University. April coordinates and oversees the maintenance of the course inventory. She also plans and develops processes related to student registration. April previously held the title of Commencement and Course Action Process Coordinator. Phone: (254) 710-8826 Email: April_Benson@baylor.edu TAMRA BURKHART Registrar Associate, Transcripts Tamra joined the Office of the Registrar at Baylor University in 2019. She holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Psychology from Wayland Baptist University. Her role in the office is to provide and efficiently maintain accurate academic records as scanned documents, as well as, support in the processing, preparation, and sending out of official transcripts. Tamra enjoys art and spending time with her friends and family. Phone: (254) 710-8838 Email: Tamra_Burkhart@baylor.edu HANNAH DYSINGER Assistant University Registrar and Process Analyst Hannah joined the Office of the Registrar in November 2021 as an Assistant Registrar and Process Analyst. Her role focuses on facilitating, troubleshooting and developing registration processes and analysis. She has a Bachelors and a Masters degree in History from Texas A&M-Central Texas, and has a professional background in Academic Advising and Institutional Research. Hannah was born and raised in Waco and is excited to be a part of a university that is rooted in her hometown. Phone: (254) 710-8571 Email: Hannah_Dysinger@baylor.edu MICHELLE GALVAN Assistant University Registrar and Process Analyst Michelle joined the Office of the Registrar in June 2021 as a Business Process Analyst and quickly moved into the role of Assistant Registrar. Michelle coordinates scheduling of academic spaces. She previously served as Assistant Registrar at Concordia University Texas as well as various roles in her Higher Education career. She holds a Master of Business Administration and a Bachelor’s degree in Kinesiology both from Concordia University Texas. Michelle is a proud Veteran of the United States Navy in which she was a Hospital Corpsman. Michelle is surrounded by many Military Family members which includes her Husband, Father, Brother, and Son. She is married to Ernie Galvan and together they have 5 children. Michelle and her husband Ernie enjoy hiking and biking as well as spending time with family. Phone: (254) 710-8828 Email: Michelle_Galvan@baylor.edu ELIDA GARZA Transfer Evaluation Coordinator Elida has worked in the Office of the Registrar since 2006. She holds a Bachelor of Science Degree in Education from Texas Tech University and a Master of Science in Education from Baylor University. Her main responsibility is to apply course work from other accredited institutions for current undergraduate students to the Baylor record. She also answers student questions regarding transfer credit policies and course equivalencies, and helps in managing the course equivalency process online. In addition, she adds modified evaluated transfer credit per petition approval from academic Deans and/or academic department chairs. Other duties include processing transcripts for International Exchange students and processing Honors Program Credit. She previously served as Administrative Assistant to the Spanish Division of Modern Foreign Languages from 2002-2004. She is married and has three children, Miguel, Andrea, and Laura. Laura and Andrea are both recent Baylor graduates. Phone: (254) 710-8823 Email: Elida_Garza@baylor.edu SANDRA GROVES Commencement and Course Action Process Coordinator Sandra has been with Baylor since February 2018. She received her Bachelor of Science in Education from the University of Texas at Austin. Her responsibilities include coordinating commencement and diploma orders, assisting all Baylor University-Military Joint Programs, and processing new courses and course changes for the University. Sandra and her husband, Greg, have two children, Cooper and Haley, who both graduated from the Hankamer School of Business at Baylor University. Phone: (254) 710-8204 Email: Sandra_Groves@baylor.edu DAWN KHOURY Associate University Registrar Dawn has been at Baylor University since January 2014. Born and raised in Waco, she earned her Bachelor of Science degree from Baylor University and a Master of Science from Texas Tech University. Previously, she served as an Assistant Registrar. As an Associate Registrar at Baylor, her duties include assisting faculty, as well as academic and administrative departments. She serves as a member of the Office of the Registrar Leadership team, and oversees operational components of the office related to course inventory, catalogs, class scheduling, room scheduling, and commencement. She also assists constituents with questions about related policies/procedures. She is married to Rusty Khoury (also a Baylor graduate) and they have two children, Cameron and Sarah. Phone: (254) 710-8831 Email: Dawn_Khoury@baylor.edu BRENDA B. KHOZEIN Administrative Manager Brenda started working at Baylor University in 2000 as an Administrative Associate. Currently, she is the Administrative Manager for the Office of the Registrar. She oversees the operational components of the office including processing transcripts, enrollment and degree verifications, registration, and the scanning of records. She also collaborates with the Senior Associate Registrar for Business Operations and Analysis on budget planning and management. In addition, she recruits, hires, and trains the student employees. She is married to Fuad Khozein, and has two daughters, Naseem and Neda, and a beautiful granddaughter, Leyla. Phone: (254) 710-1059 Email: Brenda_Khozein@baylor.edu HANNAH KING Senior Associate Registrar Hannah joined the Office of the Registrar in 2010 and has served the office in a number of roles during her time at Baylor. She holds a Master of Business Administration and a Master of Science in Information Systems from Baylor, as well as a Bachelor of Business Administration in Finance from Oklahoma Baptist University. As Senior Associate University Registrar for Operations and Analysis, Hannah serves on the leadership team, oversees our registration processes and works to improve processes and implement technology solutions related to Office of the Registrar. She also works closely with the Administrative Manager to support front office operations and to assist with budget planning and management. Phone: (254) 710-8827 Email: Hannah_King@baylor.edu RYAN MICHALAK VA Coordinator Ryan joined Baylor University and the Office of the Registrar in May 2021 as a VA Coordinator. His duties include certifying enrollment for veterans and/or dependents of veterans, assisting students in the application process for benefits, and providing information to students regarding their VA benefits. He previously worked for the Office of the Registrar at Texas State Technical College and was also a contractor for the Department of Veterans Affairs. Phone: (254) 710-8870 Email: Ryan_Michalak@baylor.edu SIENA A. MORGAN Athletics Certification Coordinator Siena joined the Office of the Registrar in October 2017. She holds a Master’s in Sport and Athletic Administration from Gonzaga University, and a Bachelor of Science in Communication from Norwich University. Her role includes the monitoring of continuing eligibility for current and transfer student-athletes in accordance with NCAA Bylaw 14, as well as Big 12 and Baylor policies. She is also currently working part-time on her PhD in Sport Integrity and Business from Loughborough University in London. In her spare time, she enjoys competitive ballroom dancing, baking, and long hikes in Cameron Park with her black lab, Tedy. Phone: (254) 710-8914 Email: Siena_Morgan@baylor.edu GRACE OUELLETTE Degree Audit Coordinator Grace graduated from Baylor University in 2018 with a BA in University Scholars, concentrating in Biology and Spanish. Born and raised in Waco, she joined the Office of the Registrar in December of 2018 as the Administrative Associate. She now serves as the Degree Audit Coordinator, where her role includes encoding and maintaining academic degree audits for undergraduate programs, working with advisors and other administrators on audit adjustments, and looking for ways to streamline and continue to improve those processes. Grace spends her free time painting watercolors, reading, enjoying time with her family, traveling, and hiking or rock-climbing with her friends. Phone: (254) 710-8818 Email: Grace_Ouellette@baylor.edu CINDY PALMER VA Coordinator Cindy has been with Baylor since October 2017 serving as a Financial Aid Counselor in the Student Financial Aid Office and joined the Office of the Registrar in June 2021 as a VA Coordinator. She is a graduate of Southwestern Assemblies of God University with a Bachelor of Science in Counseling. Her responsibilities include certifying enrollment for veterans and/or dependents of veterans, submitting updates on enrollment certifications, assisting students in the application process for benefits and completion of eligibility requirements, and providing information to prospective and current students regarding their VA benefits. Although Cindy is not a veteran, her family has a long and proud history of military service. Her parents met while both were serving in the Army, and Cindy along with 2 older brothers were born in France while her parents were stationed there. Cindy’s father-in-law served as a Navy Dive Bomber Pilot during WWII. She has several other family members who have served previously or are on active duty including her youngest brother, several uncles, cousins, nephews and great-niece. Phone: (254) 710-8870 Email: Cindy_Palmer@baylor.edu DEBBI PARKER Compliance & Certification Coordinator Debbi joined the Office of the Registrar in February 2019 as the Compliance and Certification Coordinator. She is a graduate of Baylor University with a B.B.A. in Human Resources Management. Debbi’s primary role is to certify enrollment and changes to enrollment for veteran students and dependents of veterans. She also assists students with the process of applying for VA benefits. Prior to joining the Office of the Registrar, Debbi worked in local public health and as a special education teacher. While Debbi is not a veteran, she comes from a family with a long history of military service. Debbi’s husband, Phillip, served in the Marine Corps. Debbi’s father was a Vietnam veteran who retired from the Navy, and her brother is retired from the Army. She also has a nephew who joined the Army upon his high school graduation in 2011, and he is currently serving. Due to her immense respect for those who serve in our military, Debbi enjoys assisting veterans and their family members here at Baylor. Phone: (254) 710-8870 Email: Debbi_Parker@baylor.edu MISSY PENNINGTON Registrar Associate, Verifications Missy has been with Baylor since 2007 and joined Office of Registrar in August 2019 as the Administrative Associate. She holds a Bachelor's in Office Administration and her role includes responding to student inquiries, both by phone and by email, assisting with degree and enrollment certifications, assisting in processing registration forms, and helping any students or guests that visit the office. Missy enjoys reading and spending time with family and friends. Phone: (254) 710-8814 Email: Melissa_Pennington@baylor.edu BRAXTON RAY Academic Records Coordinator Braxton graduated from Baylor University in 2016 with a BA in Film & Digital Media and Religion, and from the University of Edinburgh in 2017 with a MSc in Sound Design. Originally from Baton Rouge, LA, he joined the Office of the Registrar in May 2018 as the Transcript Production and Document Imaging Associate. He now serves as the Academic Records Coordinator, where his roles include encoding and maintaining academic degree audits for graduate and professional programs, helping to process transfer credit, processing grades, and maintaining the accuracy of student records. In his spare time, Braxton is an avid hiker and consummate traveler - having been to over twenty countries and lived in the UK for two years. With the eventual goal of obtaining a PhD, Braxton feels that this position provides a great start to a hopefully long career in higher education. Phone: (254) 710-8817 Email: Braxton_Ray@baylor.edu LAUREN WILLIAMSON Registrar Associate, Registration Lauren joined the Office of the Registrar in June 2021. After graduating from Baylor with a Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education, she decided to make Waco her home. She loves Waco and is excited about her new role at Baylor. Her responsibilities include assisting students, advisors, and deans with various registration activities including dropping/adding classes. She also assists students with inquiries by phone, email, and in person. In her free time, Lauren enjoys relaxing by the tv, shopping, and playing with her many different pets. Phone: (254) 710-8813 Email: L_Williamson@baylor.edu KYLE YATES Associate University Registrar Kyle has been at Baylor since July 2015, where he joined the staff as an Assistant Registrar. He moved into the role of an Associate Registrar in September 2019, where he provides shared leadership responsibility for the Office of the Registrar and oversight of the operational components of the office related to academic records and compliance. This includes academic actions, athletics eligibility, curriculum and other program setup, degree audit systems, degree clearance and conferral, grades, National Student Clearinghouse reporting, transfer credit, VA educational benefits, and University Withdrawals. He holds a Master of Business Administration from Texas Christian University and a Bachelor of Science in Kinesiology from Texas A&M University. Previously, he served as an Associate Athletics Director for Compliance at Missouri State University and also worked in the Athletics Department at Texas Christian University. Phone: (254) 710-8550 Email: Kyle_Yates@baylor.edu Registrar Dates and Deadlines Registering for Classes Steps for Registration Registration + Planning Instructional Videos View Class Schedule in BearWeb Summer/Fall 2022 BearWeb Early Registration Schedule Waitlist Information Waitlist FAQs Returning Student Reactivation Returning Student Reactivation FAQs Wintermester Academic Services Transcript Information Additional Information Current Student Online Ordering Former Student Online Ordering Name and Address Change Enrollment/Degree Certification Commencement Information Non-certified Commencement Participation Policy Diploma Information Diploma Distribution for Current Graduates Duplicate Diploma Orders for Alumni Duplicate Diploma Order Form Dean's Academic Honor List Degree Audits GPA Slip/Final Grades Enrollment Status Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy FAQ's - Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy U.Achieve Instructional Videos Schedule of Classes & Catalogs Schedule of Classes University Catalogs Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Law School Catalog Seminary Catalog Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Fall 2022 Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Policies Equivalent Course Tool (ECT) Search by Outside Institution Search by Baylor Course Equivalent Course Request (ECR) Transfer Credit FAQs Abroad Equivalent Course Approval VA Education Benefits Announcements Apply for VA Educational Benefits Meet our VA Benefits Team VA Benefits Contact Information Military Scholarships VA Chapter Benefits Chapter 33 John Fry Scholarship Chapter 35 Chapter 31 Chapter 30, 1606 VA Forms / Resources FAQs Ineligible Programs The Effects of Schedule Changes (Debt Info) Terminology VA COE Submission Yellow Ribbon Program Room Scheduling Faculty/Staff Resources Class Scheduling Schedule Build Timeline Development Grading Resources Class Roster Verification Electronic Catalog Implementation FERPA FERPA Policy Faculty/Staff Quick Guide Student Annual Notification FERPA Consent Form FAQs Office Information Mission Statement Staff Directory Activities and Responsibilities Organizational Chart Search the Site Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Dates and Deadlines Registering for Classes Steps for Registration Registration + Planning Instructional Videos View Class Schedule in BearWeb Summer/Fall 2022 BearWeb Early Registration Schedule Waitlist Information Waitlist FAQs Returning Student Reactivation Returning Student Reactivation FAQs Wintermester Academic Services Transcript Information Additional Information Current Student Online Ordering Former Student Online Ordering Name and Address Change Enrollment/Degree Certification Commencement Information Non-certified Commencement Participation Policy Diploma Information Diploma Distribution for Current Graduates Duplicate Diploma Orders for Alumni Duplicate Diploma Order Form Dean's Academic Honor List Degree Audits GPA Slip/Final Grades Enrollment Status Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy FAQ's - Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy U.Achieve Instructional Videos Schedule of Classes & Catalogs Schedule of Classes University Catalogs Undergraduate Catalog Previous Undergraduate Catalogs Graduate Catalog Law School Catalog Seminary Catalog Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Fall 2022 Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Policies Equivalent Course Tool (ECT) Search by Outside Institution Search by Baylor Course Equivalent Course Request (ECR) Transfer Credit FAQs Abroad Equivalent Course Approval VA Education Benefits Announcements Apply for VA Educational Benefits Meet our VA Benefits Team VA Benefits Contact Information VA Benefits Appointment Scheduling Military Scholarships VA Chapter Benefits Chapter 33 Chapter 33 Application Process - Veterans or Active Duty Chapter 33 Application Process - Spouses or Dependents Chapter 33 - Private School Tuition & Fee Cap Timeline of VA Chapter 33 Certification Procedure VA CH 33 Refund Procedure Example Email John Fry Scholarship Chapter 35 Chapter 31 VA CH 31 Refund Procedure Chapter 30, 1606 VA Forms / Resources FAQs Ineligible Programs The Effects of Schedule Changes (Debt Info) Terminology VA COE Submission Yellow Ribbon Program Room Scheduling Faculty/Staff Resources Class Scheduling Schedule Build Timeline Development Grading Resources Class Roster Verification Electronic Catalog Implementation FERPA FERPA Policy Faculty/Staff Quick Guide Student Annual Notification FERPA Consent Form FAQs Office Information Mission Statement Staff Directory Activities and Responsibilities Organizational Chart Search the Site