Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Campus Life Finding Your Community Living on Campus Working at Clemson Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Campus Life Finding Your Community Living on Campus Working at Clemson Clemson Home Campus Life Current: Finding Your Community Find Your Community on Campus Connect with Tigers who share your passion! Clemson offers 500+ clubs and organizations to help students explore their interests and learn new skills. Explore Student Groups. Student Orgs ROTC Greek Life Performing Arts Groups Pause/Play Living-Learning Communities Clemson’s 17 nationally recognized Living-Learning Communities are where student living spaces meet study halls and social networking opportunities. Through Living-Learning Communities, undergraduate students with similar academic interests, hobbies or backgrounds are assigned to the same residence hall. Sharing a home base at Clemson creates daily interaction with students facing similar challenges: This boosts grades and forges lifelong friendships. Be sure to explore the different Living-Learning Communities before applying for housing! New Student Communities Continuing Student Communities Faculty-In-Residence Multicultural Engagement Clemson is committed to growing the intercultural competence of students by promoting diverse learning opportunities. Nearly 1,300 students study abroad each year. The annual international festival turns Bowman Field into a vibrant celebration of differing cultures, speaker series highlight individuals from varied backgrounds, and special interest groups meet throughout the year to provide fellowship for members of international communities in Clemson. Multicultural Programs Global Engagement Study Abroad Veterans Ten thousand Clemson men and women have served in the U.S. armed forces. We are humbled by their courage, grateful for their sacrifice and committed to serving them well as they earn their degree or begin a new career on campus. Student Veterans Employee Veterans Student Government Clemson University Student Government provides students the opportunity to make a meaningful impact on the University, gain experience in politics and represent their peers in conversations with the administration, faculty and staff. Undergraduate Student Government Graduate Student Government Video Transcript 0:00-0:03 Six Clemson students in varying shades of orange clothing smile and enjoy a meal together in Douthit Hills as the sun sets behind them. 0:03-0:04 A female student working on her laptop in Cooper Library greets her friend as he approaches. 0:05-0:07 Two female sorority members stick purple tissue paper into the base of a homecoming float to create the design of the Clemson ring crest. 0:08-0:09 Three members of Lambda Theta Phi, Clemson’s Latino fraternity, gather at Starbucks to catch up on life and their group’s upcoming activities. 0:10-0:11 Three female students sit together in the outdoor amphitheater on a sunny day, studying and chatting. 0:12-0:13 Clemson’s female a capella group, Take Note, performs during a ceremony in Littlejohn Coliseum. 0:14-0:15 A drone shot shows a male Clemson student running on the dike beside Lake Hartwell with his dog. Memorial Stadium and the rest of campus can be seen above the tree line in the distance. 0:16-0:17 Two female students can be seen through the glass of a 3D printer in the Watt Innovation Center Makerspace. The machine is busy printing their product with orange material, and they are discussing the process together. 0:18-0:19 Two diverse female students walk together on a tree-lined path beside Godfrey Hall, having a discussion. 0:20-0:21 Clemson LIFE students wearing orange and purple shirts play basketball together in Littlejohn Coliseum. One of the students plays in a wheelchair. 0:22-0:23 Three male Clemson students smile and hold up their index finger at a sunny tailgate, communicating that Clemson is No. 1. 0:24-0:25 Clemson Air Force and Army ROTC cadets march in the First Friday parade, leading a procession of spirited cheerleaders. A variety of Clemson fans in orange and purple line the street to cheer them on. 0:26-0:28 An African American cheerleader smiles and completes a routine on the field in Death Valley. It’s a sunny day, and the Tiger Band plays behind her. 0:29-0:30 In straight lines, members of the Tiger Band run onto the field in Death Valley to begin their pre-game ritual. The stands are full of orange-clad fans. 0:31-0:33 The Clemson Tiger stands at the base of the student section and raises his arms during a cheer. Clemson students and fans clad in orange enthusiastically fill the space behind him. 0:33-0:35 The image of the Tiger mascot blurs, and a white Clemson Tiger Paw comes into focus in the middle of the screen. The video concludes. × Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson