Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content News Contact Us Experts Latest News Latest News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Broadcast Studio Research ☰ Featured News SMU News Featured News Longtime Faculty Member Paul Krueger to Serve as Interim Dean of SMU's Lyle School of Engineering Longtime Faculty Member Paul Krueger to Serve as Interim Dean of SMU's Lyle School of Engineering The search for the permanent Lyle School of Engineering Dean will begin in fall 2022 and Krueger will serve until a new permanent dean is appointed. May 03, 2022 DALLAS (SMU) – Paul Krueger, department chair and professor of mechanical engineering, has been named interim dean of SMU’s Lyle School of Engineering. He begins his duties June 1 following the departure of current Dean Marc P. Christensen, who is leaving SMU to become the 17th president of Clarkson University in Potsdam, New York. The search for the permanent Lyle School of Engineering Dean will begin in fall 2022 and Krueger will serve until a new permanent dean is appointed. “Paul’s twenty years of distinguished service to Lyle and SMU will serve him well in this role. He is a natural fit for the interim and we are fortunate and grateful for his willingness to take on this opportunity,” said Elizabeth Loboa, SMU provost and vice president for academic affairs. Krueger joined Lyle’s mechanical engineering faculty in 2002. He is a recipient of the ASME North Texas Section Young Engineer of the Year Award, the Rolf D. Buhler Memorial Award in Aeronautics, the Richard Bruce Chapman Memorial Award for distinguished research in Hydrodynamics, the Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Award from the National Science Foundation, and SMU’s Ford research fellowship. Krueger also served as SMU’s Faculty Senate president during the 2017 – 2018 academic year. ### SMU is the nationally ranked global research university in the dynamic city of Dallas. SMU’s alumni, faculty, and nearly 12,000 students in eight degree-granting schools demonstrate an entrepreneurial spirit as they lead change in their professions, communities, and the world. SMU News Broadcast Studio Contact Us SMU Research Blog Experts News Archives Featured News Research Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share