Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Big rewards in Dallas Especially for our international students, SMU and Dallas create a global gateway to limitless opportunities to make your mark in the world. Our vibrant campus community embodies the cosmopolitan city’s unbridled optimism. With Dallas as our classroom, SMU prepares students from all around the world to make a difference. Also in International How to apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU Immigration information Obtaining I-20 Discover a thriving global city Dallas offers a world of opportunities for inspiration, exploration and recreation that can be found just minutes from SMU's tree-lined campus. Top 20% SMU is among the top national universities ranked by U.S. News & World Report. Best for jobs Dallas ranks among the best cities for jobs according to Glassdoor 2020. 200+ Companies from 34 countries have their U.S. headquarters or substantial operations in the Dallas region. Bridge to big opportunities SMU’s welcoming campus is located near the heart of one of the United States’ economic and cultural powerhouses. Top 3% DFW is among the world’s 500 Best Cities in the Innovation Cities Index 2020 by global data analysis firm 2thinknow. 1 of 300 SMU is 1 of only 300 schools nationwide that are worth the investment, according to Forbes’ 2019 Best Value Colleges ranking. 4,400+ Number of internships 1,000+ Dallas-area businesses offer SMU students every year. 65,000+ SMU alumni in DFW. 143,000+ SMU alumni worldwide. SMU alumnus Mohammed Njie ’21 came to the Hilltop with a bold idea to bring reliable energy to his country Gambia, Africa. While earning his BS in electrical engineering, Njie tapped into resources through SMU’s Hunt Institute for Engineering and Humanity and SMU’s Big iDeas to develop a pilot program that blossomed into a partnership with the Gambian government. Big ideas, bold results SMU’s faculty and students join forces as co-creators of knowledge that spans the arts, the sciences, engineering, business and the humanities. Our innovation culture empowers bold thinkers to transform their big ideas into new products, inventive technology and world-changing solutions. Even in their first year, SMU students work alongside faculty researchers and collaborators to find solutions to complex problems. Meadows School of the Arts Creative students prepare for careers in the visual and performing arts and communications in the school leading the way in arts entrepreneurship and innovative community engagement programs. More than 80% of Meadows students pursue a double major. Lyle School of Engineering Through innovative programs and hands-on experiences, students in this school learn to make a difference in the world through engineering. The 4+1 accelerated master’s program allows students to finish a master’s degree in one year upon completion of a bachelor’s degree in engineering. Cox School of Business The internationally recognized school provides a direct connection to businesses in Dallas and around the world and equips students with the knowledge and networks they need to become business leaders. 91% job placement for Cox BBA Class of 2020 around time of graduation, with an average starting salary of $67K. Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Iconic Dallas Hall, SMU’s first building, houses the largest academic unit encompassing the humanities, social sciences, and natural and mathematical sciences. Top 5% of highest-paid graduates for SMU alumni across a range of fields. Simmons School of Education and Human Development Professionals across many fields of education, counseling, dispute resolution, applied physiology and wellness focus on creating and disseminating evidence-based knowledge in this multifaceted school. 90% of the Simmons School’s Applied Physiology and Sport Management grads enter jobs or graduate school. List Experience SMU Launch your career Multiple career services centers connect students with top employers for internships or jobs. Multiply your connections SMU’s Office of Social Change and Intercultural Engagement supports student cultural and service organizations. Thrive in a global destination Experience comforting cultural touch points at restaurants, festivals, markets and places of worship that celebrate the region’s cultural melting pot. Feel at home in a vibrant community Lifelong friendships in any of our 11 Residential Commons – an instant community on campus with leadership opportunities and Faculty in Residence. Easy-to-access safety, tutoring, career services, wellness and mental health resources. Whether you have a cold you want to get checked out or need to talk to someone about something on your mind, we have professionals at the Dr. Bob Smith Health Center to care for you. Text Create your own SMU experience 200 Student organizations. 100+ Years of spirit and traditions. 18 Intramural or club sports. 17 Division I sports. Big iDeas A program funding opportunities to start a company to solve a real-world problem. Incubator A dedicated space on campus where enterprising students and faculty meet and work on projects. 1st Research opportunities as early as your first semester. Engaged Learning Experiential projects, cultural immersions through SMU Abroad programs* and global opportunities through virtual internships abroad. SMU-in-Taos Credit courses through intersessions at our campus in New Mexico. Stat *Three SMU Abroad programs, in France and Spain. SMU is reopening study abroad for fall 2021 with caution. Undergraduate majors Hundreds of SMU undergraduates pursue two or more majors. We have you covered with more than 100 undergraduate majors and 85 minors across five nationally recognized undergraduate schools. Learn More Apply to SMU today Our holistic review of your SMU application weighs several factors, including rigor of high school curriculum, GPA, standardized test scores (optional), English proficiency, essay, resume and letters of recommendation. Heading Application Checklist: Application for admission Personal essay Official high school transcript SAT or ACT scores (optional) Official English proficiency scores* Counselor recommendation (required) $60 nonrefundable application fee Extracurricular resume (optional) Teacher recommendation (optional) *SMU accepts the Duolingo English Test, TOEFL and IELTS. Some applicants may have this requirement waived. Ask your SMU admission counselor if you qualify. Deadlines Early Action (nonbinding), Early Decision (binding), and scholarship consideration November 1 Apply now Regular Decision (nonbinding), Early Decision II (binding), and scholarship consideration January 15 Apply now Table Admitted Student Profile of the SMU Class of 2025 GPA MID-50% Upweighted 4.0 Scale: 3.53-3.94 ACT MID-50%* highest composite 36-Point Scale: 31-34 *Superscore SAT MID-50%* highest composite 1600-Point Scale: 1360-1500 *Superscore TOEFL Average 103 IELTS Average 7.4 Table We’re available for You Heading 1:1 meeting Schedule a virtual 1:1 meeting and connect with a counselor. Virtual tour Take a virtual tour and discover SMU's beautiful campus. Sessions & events Learn more about virtual information sessions and events. Let's connect SMU Office of Undergraduate Admission: Email: ugadmission@smu.edu Phone: +1-214-768-2058 Follow us: @smuadmission Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search