Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Facilities Management Aramark Services Energy Management Engineering Services Project Management Facility Maintenance Baylor Services Asbestos & IAQ Budget Management Construction Services Space Planning & Interior Design Work Order Facilities Management Facilities Management is responsible for the design, construction and maintenance of Baylor University buildings, grounds, and utilities. Patrick Carley Associate Vice President for Facilities and Operations Patrick joined Baylor University in 2021 after serving 26 years in the U.S. Air Force having led facilities and multidisciplinary support organizations, programs, and projects across the globe. He’s been assigned to the Pentagon, the State Department, and deployed to overseas contingency operations multiple times in his career. His experience includes Command positions leading facilities and support organizations at the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Spring, CO and at Air University at Maxwell Air Force Base in Montgomery, AL. Patrick is a licensed professional engineer and earned a bachelor’s degree in civil engineering from Texas A&M University, a master’s degree in civil engineering from the University of Texas at Austin, and a master’s degree in Strategic Studies from Marine Corps University. Don Bagby Assistant Vice President for Facilities and Planning In July 1994, Don Bagby was appointed the Director of Facilities Management at Baylor University. Over the years, he has provided direction for the design and construction of $300+ million in building expansions at Baylor University. Don was promoted to Assistant VP for Facilities Management in 2013. Prior to joining Baylor, Don held positions of Facilities Engineer and Industrial Engineering Manager at Texas Instruments, and then Senior Member/Technical Staff with Tellabs Electronics. Don has directed the design and installation of several complex facilities systems in the electronics industry. His years of architectural and engineering employment has included work as an engineering designer for Hughes Tool Company and the operation of a residential and commercial architectural design business. University Policy Facility Improvements, Capital Projects, and Space Allocations Related Documents and Forms Building Lettering Standards (163.78 KB) Facility Improvement and Capital Project Process and Procedures (97.63 KB) Faculty and Staff Office Standards (168.62 KB) Flooring Standards (157.64 KB) Furniture Standards (4.12 MB) Paint Standards (151.15 KB) Project Request Form (1.05 MB) Room Numbering Standards (265.77 KB) Sculptures, Statues, and Other Features Process and Procedures (132.56 KB) Space Request Form (156.62 KB) Contact Information Phone: (254) 710-8400 Fax: (254) 710-8203 Facilities_Management@baylor.edu Mailing Address One Bear Place #97111 Waco, TX 76798-7111 Physical Address Cashion Academic Center 1401 S. 4th St. Suite 402 Waco, TX 76706 Door Locks: call 254-710-1361 Temperature Concerns: call 254-710-1361 Routine Service/Maintenance: visit the iServiceDesk and complete a work order request Aramark Services Back Energy Management Engineering Services Project Management Facility Maintenance Baylor Services Back Asbestos & IAQ Budget Management Construction Services Space Planning & Interior Design Work Order General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678