Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Global Regional Activities Regional Activities Africa Asia-Pacific California Europe Japan Latin America Mid-US Middle East & North Africa South Asia About Faculty & Research MBA Experience Executive Education Alumni …→ Harvard Business School→ Global→ About About Africa Asia Pacific California Europe Japan Latin America Mid-US Middle East & North Africa South Asia Fast Facts → South Asia South Asia Mumbai For the past decade the HBS community has demonstrated a strong interest in research related to South Asia. The India Research Center (IRC) was established in 2006 and is based in Mumbai. Following significant economic policy transitions during the early 1990s, India has proven to be a major force within the world economy. As a result, the School supports its faculty with their research interests on the emerging trends that are quickly transforming and shaping the region. To date, the IRC has supported most of the case studies and HBS research projects focused on South Asian business issues, helping to build intellectual capital on this important region. Further, the IRC is home to one of two HBS style classrooms outside of Boston, allowing for regional business leaders to experience our faculty and the hallmark case study method in local Executive Education programs. Location India Research Center Piramal Tower 704, 7th Floor Peninsula Corporate Park Ganpatrao Kadam Marg Lower Parel, Mumbai, 400013, India Tel: +91 22 6108 4017 Fax: +91 22 2490 0724 News & Highlights March 2022 EVENTS What They're Made Of: Secrets and stories of the leaders on the edge – A Conversation with Professor Ranjay Gulati and Anand Mahindra (HBS MBA 1981) This March in collaboration with HBS Club of India, we virtually organized a conversation between Professor Ranjay Gulati, former Unit Head of the Organizational Behavior Unit, and former Chair of the HBS Advanced Management Program, and Anand Mahindra (MBA 1981), Chairman of the Mahindra Group. The discussion touched on themes from Professor Gulati’s new book, Deep Purpose: The Heart and Soul of High-Performance Companies, which describes how leaders inspire their teams and organizations to become courageous and more purposeful. Mr. Mahindra shared the genesis of the Mahindra Group’s Rise philosophy, which drives the actions of all its employees. He elaborated on how he personally uses the Rise purpose as his north star in making the right choices. He ended with a piece of advice for future leaders: to retain their humility as humility leads to curiosity, an essential value for surviving in today’s volatile world. A total of 130 participants watched it live and over 500 have viewed it since then. A recording of the discussion is available at this link. January 2022 EVENTS Case Centennial Celebrations In January, the India Research Center hosted two events to mark the centennial of the HBS case method. The first was in collaboration with Executive Education, Harvard Business Publishing, and the Middle East and North Africa Research Center. It was a specially curated case discussion on Building World-Class Operating Systems led by Professor Stefan Thomke. Professor Thomke discussed the classic Toyota case. This was followed by an engaging and insightful Q & A with the faculty attendees and over 100 participants. The second event was held in partnership with the HBS Club of India. Professor V. G. Narayanan wrote the case, “Hybrid Classroom - an Opportunity or a Threat?” for this session. The discussion enabled the participants to understand the scale of technology investments made by HBS to create the hybrid classroom and evaluate the opportunities and threats the new classroom presents. Participants shared that while the hybrid classroom afforded many advantages such as lifelong learning for alumni and a more diverse cohort, it was important to ensure that the quality of learning was not compromised. NOVEMBER 2021 EVENTS Dean Datar Receives Padma Shri This November, Dean Srikant Datar visited India and received the Padma Shri Award in literature and education. The Padma Shri—one of the three categories of the Padma Awards—is given for distinguished service and is one of India's highest civilian honors. The award seeks to recognize achievements in all fields of activities or disciplines where an element of public service is involved. AUGUST 2021 EVENTS Revitalizing Management Education Vinay Hebbar, Senior Vice-President, Head of International Markets at Harvard Business Publishing, and Anjali Raina, Executive Director of the India Research Center, both spoke at sessions during the Association of Indian Management Schools (AIMS) Annual Management Education, convention held from August 26 to 28. Anjali was a panelist at the session “Revitalizing management education from design thinking to actionable insights: technology as a game changer,” and Vinay was part of the Business Thought Leaders Panel, “Reinventing the management wheel for a better tomorrow.” Their speaking engagements were a part of Harvard Business School’s case centennial celebrations, marking 100 years of the case study method. Archive See more News & Highlights New Research on the Region March 2022 Case DealShare: Social E-Commerce for the Indian Mass Market By: Krishna G. Palepu and Malini Sen Launched in September 2018, e-retail startup DealShare has created a tech-enabled model for the Indian mass market that allows customers to buy together, save money on good quality goods, and at the same time have fun. It targets customers who are still getting used to the Internet for commerce and for whom big e-commerce players are not an ideal option. As DealShare transitions from a regional to a national company, the founders are at a crossroads. Until now, they have prioritized profitability at the unit economics level over growth. Now that they are confident that the DealShare concept can be profitable, should they relax their commitment to profitability and expand rapidly to preempt competition? Will the investments required and added complexity derail the company’s success? March 2022 Case Pakistan Rising: Bazaar's Growth Story (A) By: Paul A. Gompers and Gamze Yucaoglu The case opens in September 2021 as Hamza Jawaid and Saad Jangda, co-founders of Bazaar technologies (Bazaar), the Pakistani high growth B2B e-commerce marketplace, are contemplating whether the year-and-a half old startup should also venture into offering financing to its customers, the thousands of mom-and-pop stores around Pakistan. Since its founding in mid 2020, the company has been growing its core business full throttle and also launched a digital ledger app to help with customer acquisition. Meanwhile, the co-founders are growing the team and geographically expanding Bazaar’s operations beyond Karachi. Jawaid and Jangda need to weigh the pros and cons of branching out to financing and decide, with so much going on, whether this is the right time for such a move. The case provides a background on Pakistan, its retail and e-commerce space to then talk about Bazaar’s founding story and its founders’ ambitious mission to create a generational story in and for Pakistan. The case then talks about the company’s pillars: technology, warehousing and logistics, and culture in detail and provides details on its day-to-day operations. Next, the case chronicles the company’s growth both product -wise and geographically. Bazaar is trying to take a stake and solidify its place in the booming $170 billion retail market in the world’s fifth-most populous nation which is yet to see much deployment of technology, and is in hypergrowth mode with a number of competing priorities. The co-founders need to decide if venturing into financing now is a good idea and whether it would take away from the company’s sharp focus on the B2B business and its culture that the co-founders so passionately built. The decision is made more complicated, because the company has the funds to deploy and many think that financing will also fuel the growth of the core business. March 2022 Teaching Material Pakistan Rising: Bazaar's Growth Story (B) By: Paul A. Gompers and Gamze Yucaoglu The case opens in January 2022 as Hamza Jawaid and Saad Jangda, co-founders of Bazaar technologies (Bazaar), the Pakistani high growth B2B e-commerce marketplace, are looking over the performance of the newly launched “buy now, play later” feature. The traction looks promising and seems to deliver more share of wallet per customer, so the co-founders are trying to envisage how big this business could get and whether it would overtake Bazaar’s core business. The case provides a background on the launch of the delayed payment feature—it seems low risk and additive to the core business and is financed by the capital previously raised. The competitive environment is bound to heat up and the co-founders need to decide how best to sustainably grow this new business while also expanding the B2B business across 15 cities in the next six months. See more research Mumbai Staff Anjali Raina Executive Director → Biography Anjali Raina Executive Director Anjali Raina is the Executive Director of the Harvard Business School India Research Centre. In her leadership role at the IRC, Anjali focuses on building and maintaining relationships with senior business leaders in the region to facilitate the work of the center in research, educational programs, community building and faculty development. Under her leadership, the IRC has facilitated the writing of over 168 case studies on Indian Business Practice and supported half a dozen research projects. Anjali has co-authored several case studies such as Aadhaar: India’s ‘Unique Identification’ System, TeamLease: Putting India to Work (II) Legally; Pratham – Every Child in School and Learning Well; Naina Lal Kidwai: Investing in Her Country; Tech Mahindra and the Acquisition of Satyam Computers (A); HN Agri Serve : Growing Prosperity as well as an HBR Article on The Ordinary Heroes of the Taj. Anjali wears several additional hats. She is a Director on the Board of Harvard Business Publishing, India, the Regional President (Western Region) of NHRDN, an Advisor to The Akanksha Foundation, Trustee to LIFE Trust, an Advisory Member on the Board of HBS Club of India, and on the Advisory Board of the Indian Business School. Prior to joining HBS IRC Anjali spent 15 years with Citigroup India, most recently as Country Director, before which she worked for more than a decade with ANZ Grindlays Bank PLC. Anjali holds an MBA from the Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta, a bachelor's degree (Eng. Hons) from Loreto College and is an alumnus of HBS having completed the Advanced Management Program. Contact Informationaraina@hbs.edu Rachna Chawla Associate Director, Community Engagement Anthea D’Souza Associate Director, Financial and Business Administration Kairavi Dey Researcher Kalpesh Hedulkar Coordinator Radhika Kak Researcher Mansoor Masood Research Associate Rashmi Patel Research Assistant and Educational Coordinator Malini Sen Senior Researcher Sanjivani Shedge Executive Assistant Rachna Tahilyani Senior Associate Director, Research ǁ Global Initiative Harvard Business School Boston, MA 02163 Email: global@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College