Skip to main content instagram twitter fa fa-search dropdown trigger Search Home About About WRBU Meet the team Frequently asked questions Mosquitoes Species profiles Genus profiles Identification keys Resources Vector Hazard Reports USNM Collections Protocols VectorMap Archived Mosquito Catalog Contact New paper demonstrates preserving archive specimen data from medically important insects WRBU presents a newly developed dual-phase process (comprising e-vouchering, and whole-genome sequencing with WRAIR's Illumina NovaSeq) to preserve archive specimen data from two medically important insect subfamilies—Diptera: Culicidae and Hemiptera: Reduviidae. Read more about this process Incursion of the arbovirus vector Aedes (Fredwardsius) vittatus (Bigot, 1861) in the Americas First record of the incursion and establishment of the invasive arbovirus vector Ae. vittatus in the Americas confirmed by integrated morphological and molecular approaches. Read more about this study Morphological abnormalities in ticks (Acari: Ixodidae) from South Korea A study by WRBU’s Dr. Rich Robbins and a team of entomologists describes teratological abnormalities observed in Haemaphysalis longicornis and Ixodes nipponensis for the first time in South Korea. Read more about this study Rolling release of Culicid pages WRBU will roll out all outstanding Culicid pages in the coming months! If you catch an error or omission, or want to contribute bionomic or distribution data, please contact us. Contact WRBU Now available: Mosquitoes of the World Volumes 1 & 2 This long-awaited 2-volume compendium, by current and prior research leaders of WRBU (Richard C. Wilkerson, Yvonne-Marie Linton, and Daniel Strickman) is now available for preorder. Volume 1 covers biology, evolution, ecology, and diversity. Volume 2 comprises an updated taxonomic catalog. Read more about Mosquitoes of the World Windborne long-distance migration of malaria mosquitoes WRBU identified Anopheles vectors collected at high altitudes over the Sahel, using DNA barcoding. Long-distance aerial migrations of malaria vectors may explain the persistence of malaria, despite extensive ground-based control efforts in Africa. Image source: Taina Litwak, USDA Read more about this study Ten taxa distinguished within the Neotropical Albitarsis group (Diptera: Culicidae) A team of past and present WRBU researchers has published a new study on members of the Albitarsis group. The study confirms the species Anopheles albitarsis H, and uncovers new findings that may confirm another species—An. albitarsis J. Read more about this study The Walter Reed Biosystematics Unit (WRBU) is a world-renowned center of taxonomic excellence, undertaking cutting-edge research to provide actionable entomological intelligence tools and products that best assess global vector-borne disease risk. In partnership with the Smithsonian Institution, WRBU has grown the U.S. National Mosquito Collection from 200,000 specimens in 1961, into the world’s largest taxonomically and geographically comprehensive collection of over 1.7 million specimens today. WRBU also manages eight other families including sand flies, horse flies, black flies, biting midges, and four other families of non-biting insects. WRBU Core Competencies fa-microscope Diagnose and describe species, and develop identification tools fa-dna Utilize cutting-edge genetic and genomic approaches fa-check-circle Undertake real-time biosurveillance and vector incrimination fa-map-marked-alt Map and model vector spatio-temporal distributions fa-exclamation-triangle Identify, track, and report changing global vector hazards fa-users Sustain and develop partnerships with academia, military, and industry +1 301.238.1123 +1 301.238.1069 4210 Silver Hill Road Suitland, MD 20746-2863 USA nmnh-wrbu@si.edu instagram twitter About Privacy Policy Terms of Use Because taxonomy matters. © 2021 Walter Reed Biosystematics Unit (WRBU) | Smithsonian Institution © 2021 Walter Reed Biosystematics Unit (WRBU) | Smithsonian Institution