Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Contact and Visit Us Home About Contact and Visit Us About Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Connect With Us! We invite you to visit us in Southwell Hall on the Chestnut Hill campus at Boston College or contact a member of our team with your questions. Whether you are visiting for a specific purpose or want to get more information, our team members are always happy to assist you. Contact Us Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 For Employers: 617-552-3430 career.center@bc.edu For Employers: employer.recruiting@bc.edu Hours Directions Parking Reserve A Room Summer 2022 Office Hours: Day Hours Monday–Thursday 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Friday 9:00 a.m.–3:00 p.m. Weekends Closed Holidays/Breaks Closed Summer 2022 Drop-In Hours: Due to renovations, we will not be able to accomodate in-person drop-ins this summer. Students can schedule a 15-minute virtual resume or cover letter review over the summer using Calendly. Upon scheduling, students will receive a Google Calendar invitation for their meeting with a Google Meet link embedded. Schedule a Virtual Drop-In Summer 2022 Career Closet Hours Day Hours Monday–Friday Closed Weekends/Holidays/Breaks Closed Learn more about the Career Closet Directions to Southwell Hall: The Career Center is located in Southwell Hall on Boston College's Chestnut Hill Campus. Our building is up the hill on Commonwealth Avenue after you pass St. Ignatius Church and diagonally across the street from the MBTA Boston College stop and White Mountain Creamery. Directions to Campus Parking at Boston College: We strongly encourage our visitors to take advantage of public transportation, rideshare, taxis, or car services when visiting campus. Parking is very limited. Should it be necessary for you to drive to campus, please take note of the following: It is best to enter campus from Commonwealth Avenue in front of St. Ignatius church. Inform the parking attendant that you will be visiting the Career Center. Upon entry to the garage all visitors should take a ticket. A validated (paid) ticket is required to exit the garage. Visitors are instructed to park on the third level or above in the garage. Due to traffic delays on campus and the distance from the parking garage to the Career Center, we encourage visitors to arrive on campus at least 30–40 minutes prior to the start of their scheduled visit. Parking Instructions The Career Center has private rooms available for you to reserve for a virtual interview, standardized test, or career coaching appointment. Interviews: Rooms can be used without masks for a maximum time period of two hours. Coaching Appointments: Rooms can be used without masks for 30 minutes as a private space for a virtual coaching appointment with a Boston College Career Coach. Standardized Testing: Rooms can be used for up to four hours provided students wear face masks. Students will be permitted to remove their face mask only for a moment if face recognition is required for the test. Hours: Monday–Friday 9:00 a.m.–4:00 p.m. Reserve a Time Quick Links Handshake Meet Our Team Make an Appointment Information for Employers What Are Drop-In Hours? You are welcome to meet with our coaches during drop-in hours. No advanced appointment is required. Drop-ins are designed for resume/cover letter reviews and other quick questions. Appointments vs. Drop-In Hours Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College