Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Visas and Immigration » Faculty, Staff and Interns » J-1 Scholars Set Navigation title in component Students F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees J-1 Scholar Visa The J non-immigrant visa category is for individuals approved to participate in work- and study-based exchange visitor programs. At the University of Cincinnati, there are three types of J-1 exchange visitors: students, interns and scholars. An exchange visitor cannot be a candidate for a tenure-track position. J-1 scholar visa categories right arrow down arrow J-1 research scholars primarily conduct research, observe, or consult in connection with a research project. The scholar may also teach or lecture. J-1 professors primarily teach, lecture, observe, or consult. The professor may also conduct research. J-1 short term scholars can be professors, research scholars, specialists, or persons with similar education or accomplishments coming to the U.S. on a short-term visit for the purpose of lecturing, observing, consulting, training, or demonstrating special skills. J-1 specialists are individuals who are expert in a field of specialized knowledge or skill who come to the U.S. for observing, consulting or demonstrating those special skills Learn more about the J-1 program I want to... apply for a J-1 visa maintain my visa status extend my stay learn what happens when my program ends Visa Application If you are not currently in the United States, you need to apply for and receive your J-1 visa before you can begin your program at the University of Cincinnati. If you have questions, contact us and we will help you. Department submits J-1 request in iBearcatsGlobal right arrow down arrow As a scholar, your host department will make a request for your exchange using UC International's online system, iBearcatsGlobal. You will need to provide information about your English proficiency, financial support, health insurance and dependents to receive the DS-2019 for your visa appointment. You must notify UC International Services of any accompanying dependents in J-2 status and provide biographical information (e.g., full name, address, country of birth, etc.) and immigration information (e.g., passport information, visa information, etc.) regarding those dependents using the UC International Services Add a New Dependent eForm found at iBearcatsGlobal. You are not permitted to bring dependents to the United States in J-2 classification if adequate funding for their support and health insurance coverage is not available. Each dependent will then receive his/her own DS-2019 to apply for the appropriate visa. Demonstrate English proficiency right arrow down arrow Any request for a J-1 research scholar/professor must include documented proficiency in English. Prospective research scholars/professors can provide a recognized English language test score from any of the listed criteria below. Options include: TOEFL score of 66 or higher IELTS overall band score of 6.0 or higher PEARSON score of 46 or higher Cambridge English Language Assessment Test grade C or higher Test of English for International Communication (TOEIC) score of 780 or higher Public English Test System (PETS) - grade 5 score Completion of Advanced English Training Program from the China Ministry of Education (Chinese Scholars) Common European Framework of Reference for Languages: Learning, Teaching, Assessment (CEFR) - score of B2 or higher A transcript showing degree completion from an academic institution where English is the means of instruction In place of an acceptable score on an English language test, prospective scholars can take the Oral English Proficiency Test for Visiting Scholars online through the Center for English as a Second Language. Research scholars or professors whose native language is English do not have to provide documentation of verifiable English. The following countries/territories are considered English speaking for this purpose: Anguilla; Antigua and Barbuda; Australia; Bahamas; Barbados; Belize; Bermuda; Botswana; Cameroon; Canada (except Quebec); Cayman Islands; Denmark; Dominica; Fiji; Finland; Gambia; Ghana; Gibraltar; Grenada; Guyana; Ireland; Jamaica; Kenya; Lesotho; Liberia; Malawi; Malta; Mauritius; Montserrat; Nambia; Netherlands; New Zealand; Nigeria; Norway; Papua New Guinea; Scotland; Seychelles; Sierra Leone; Singapore; Solomon Islands; South Africa; St. Kitts and Nevis; St. Lucia; St. Vincent and the Grenadines; Swaziland; Sweden; Tanzania; Tonga; Trinidad and Tobago; Turks and Caicos Islands; Uganda; United Kingdom; Vanuatu; Virgin Islands; Wales; Zambia; Zimbabwe. Demonstrate financial support right arrow down arrow You must demonstrate adequate financial support in order to issue a DS-2019. You must have at least $1,500 in monthly support ($18,000 per year). If you wish to bring family to the US, you must show an additional $4,000 (per year) for a spouse and $2,000 (per year) for each child. Demonstrate health insurance right arrow down arrow All J-1 Exchange Visitors (and dependents) are required to have health insurance that meets Department of State requirements: medical benefits of at least $100,000 per accident or illness repatriation of remains in the amount of $25,000 medical evacuation to the home country in the amount of $50,000 a deductible not to exceed $500 per accident or illness underwritten by an insurance corporation having: an A.M. Best rating of 'A' or above, an Insurance Solvency International, Ltd. (ISI) rating of 'A-1' or above, a Standard & Poor’s Claims-paying ability rating of 'A-' or above, OR a Weiss Research, Inc. rating of B+ or above. Insurance coverage backed by the full faith and credit of the government of the exchange visitor’s home country meets this requirement. Exchange visitors who will be employees covered by UC benefits are also in compliance. Exchange visitors will be informed of this requirement upon receipt of the DS-2019. Receive DS-2019 right arrow down arrow After your documentation has been submitted by your department, if approved, UC International will mail you a DS-2019. You will use this document to pay the SEVIS fee and set up your visa appointment. Pay the SEVIS fee right arrow down arrow Before you can apply for a visa, you must pay a SEVIS fee to the US Department of Homeland Security. Read all the instructions before paying the fee. The SEVIS fee can be paid by credit card over the internet, by check, or by money order by mail. If you are applying for F-1 status, the SEVIS fee is $350. If you are applying for J-1 status, the SEVIS fee is $220. The fee must be paid at least three business days prior to the scheduled date of your interview in order for the payment information to show up on the SEVIS system. Bring your I-901 receipt with you to your visa interview. A paper receipt can be used as verification in place of the internet verification. In order to complete your SEVIS fee form, you will need your I-20 or DS-2019 and the University of Cincinnati's School Code. Our school codes are: CLE214F10355000 for F-1 students with an I-20 P-1-00733 for J-1 students/scholars with a DS-2019 Pay the SEVIS fee Apply for your visa right arrow down arrow Once you have received your DS-2019 and paid the SEVIS fee, you can apply for your J visa. You can apply at any US consulate or embassy, but it may be more difficult outside of your country. Complete the DS-160, the online application for a nonimmigrant visa. Find the embassy or consulate closest to you. Select a time for your appointment. Appointments are mandatory for all visas, and some US embassies and consulates require appointments to be made at least four to eight weeks in advance. Apply for your visa well before the date you would like to depart for Cincinnati. Orientation and Check-in at UC right arrow down arrow All J-1 exchange visitors and accompanying dependents must report to UC International upon arrival in Cincinnati. All J-1 exchange visitors are required to attend an orientation conducted by UC International. You will be informed of the orientation upon check-in with UC International. Additionally, watch our online orientation before your check-in session. Maintain Your Visa Status To maintain your visa status: Only engage in activities permitted under the J-1 program and category. File timely and appropriate transfer and extension notifications. Refrain from unauthorized employment. Maintain required health insurance coverage. Report changes of address. Receive authorization for travel. Adhere to your grace period at the end of your program (30 days). In most cases, you can notify our office of any changes using eForms in iBearcatsGlobal. Extend Your Stay Exchange Visitors in the Professor or Research Scholar category have a maximum stay of five (5) years. Short-Term Scholars have a maximum stay of six (6) months. Specialists have a maximum stay of one year. Non-degree students have a maximum stay of (2) two years. Be sure that you have the amount of time you are requesting left. You and your sponsoring department must submit an extension request prior to the expiration of your current DS-2019. The request to extend the program must be received at least 5 days prior to the expiration of the current DS-2019, but the sooner the better. After Your J-1 Program Ends At the end of your J-1 program, you have a 30 day grace period to exit the United States. J visa holders are also subject to the home residency requirement and 12 / 24 month bars in participation, which means that you may be ineligible to apply for a new visa for some time. Home Residency Requirement As an exchange visitor, you may not be eligible to apply for or change to other visa statuses in the US until you have resided and been physically present in your country of nationality or last legal permanent residence for a minimum of two years following your departure from the United States. These restrictions apply in any of the following cases: When your participation was financed in whole or part, directly or indirectly, by an agency of the US government or by the government of your home country. You had skills necessary to your country under the Exchange Visitor Skills List when you applied for your J visa. You acquired exchange visitor status in order to receive graduate medical education or training. Direct or Indirect Financing right arrow down arrow "Financed directly" means financed in whole or part by the United States Government or your home government with funds contributed directly to you in connection with an exchange visitor program. "Financed indirectly" means: financed by an international organization with funds contributed by either the United States or your home government for use in financing international educational and cultural exchange, or financed by an organization or institution with funds made available by either the United States or your home government for the purpose of furthering international educational and cultural exchange. Waive the home residency requirement right arrow down arrow Exchange visitors who are subject to the home residency requirement may apply for a waiver under any one of the five applicable grounds: "No Objection" statement from the home government The exchange visitor’s government must state that it has no objection to the exchange visitor not returning to the home country to satisfy the two-year foreign residence requirement and remaining in the US if he or she chooses to do so. Request by an interested (US) Government Agency If an exchange visitor is working on a project for, or of interest to, a US Federal Government Agency, and that agency has determined that the visitor’s continued stay in the United States is vital to one of its programs, a waiver may be granted if the exchange visitor’s continued stay in the United States is in the public interest. Persecution If the exchange visitor believes that he or she will be persecuted upon return to the home country due to race, religion, or political opinion, he or she can apply for a waiver. Exceptional hardship to a United States citizen (or permanent resident) spouse or child of an exchange visitor If the exchange visitor can demonstrate that his or her departure from the United States would cause extreme hardship to his or her United States citizen or lawful permanent resident spouse or child, he or she may apply for a waiver. (Mere separation from family is not considered exceptional hardship.) Request by a designated State Department of Health or its equivalent The law permits only medical doctors to apply for a waiver on this basis. Foreign medical graduates may apply for a waiver if they have an offer of full-time employment at a health care facility in a designated health care professional shortage area, and agree to begin employment at the facility within 90 days of receiving such waiver, and sign a contract to continue to work at the health care facility for a total of 40 hours per week and not less than three years. Request a waiver of the home residency requirement 12 and 24 Month Bars The 12 and 24 month bars are different from the two-year home country residence requirement. The 12 and 24 month rule affects J-1 exchange visitors who have been in the US on a J-1 visa previously, and wish to return using the J-1 visa. Depending on what your previous J category was, you may be subject to a 12 month bar, a 24 month bar or have no bar at all. It is possible that a J-1 visitor has no wait time related to the 12 and 24 month bars, but is subject to the two year home residency requirement. If you have never before had J-1 visa sponsorship, then the bars do not apply to you. Length of previous J visa status was LESS than 6 months right arrow down arrow Wait time for a J-1 Research Scholar / Professor visa based on previous visa category, with previous stay less than 6 months. Previous J visa category Wait time for new J-1 research scholar / professor visa J-1 student (non-degree) No wait J-1 student No wait J-1 research scholar / professor for any amount of time (one day to five years) 24 months J-1 short-term scholar No wait J-1 specialist No wait Length of previous J visa status was MORE than 6 months right arrow down arrow Wait time for a new J-1 research scholar / professor visa by previous J visa category, with a previous stay more than 6 months. Previous J visa category Wait time for a new J-1 research scholar / professor visa J-1 student (non-degree) 12 months J-1 student 12 months J-1 specialist 12 months J-1 research scholar / professor for any amount of time (one day to five years) 24 months J-2 dependent of research scholar / professor 24 months J-2 dependent of any J-1 category except short-term scholar 12 months UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top