× Please sign in You need to log in to use the bookmarking feature. Sign In Harvard Business School Sign in to Baker Library Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Search Find Services Ask Browse Databases Collections & Archives Guides Exhibits Find Books, Articles & More More Places HOLLIS Catalog Harvard Library Working Knowledge Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program See all... Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Staff Visiting Researchers Ask Us Ask a Question Fast Answers Policies Staff Directory How Do I... Request HBS Cases Plan A Visit Manage My Data Get Teaching Support Baker Library Databases Ask Us Special Collections Fast Answers All Services Hours Plan Your Visit Exhibits Hollis Working Knowledge HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Campaign Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Search Search Search Home Services Services for Faculty & Staff Services for Faculty & Staff Bookmark This Services for Faculty & Staff /services/services-for-faculty-staff View all services for Faculty and Staff 99 35518 Services for Faculty & Staff /services/services-for-faculty-staff View all services for Faculty and Staff 99 35518 Add My Librarian Item Filters Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program Publications Archives & Records Management Information Management Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Program Participants Staff Visiting Researchers Browse All Services HBS Faculty and Staff have unparalleled support from the team of experts at Baker Library. Whether you are beginning to explore a new idea or are ready to share your research after years of work, we are here to support you. Featured services for Faculty and Staff: HBS Working Knowledge Research Data Archiving Research Data Program For a full list of library services for Faculty and Staff, please see below. Analytics /services/analytics The Analytics team, led by Karen Golden, can work with you to establish or refine the tracking, analysis and reporting of user behaviors on your website or other digital initiative. 67 52653 Analytics /services/analytics The Analytics team, led by Karen Golden, can work with you to establish or refine the tracking, analysis and reporting of user behaviors on your website or other digital initiative. 67 52653 Add My Librarian Item Analytics The Analytics team, led by Karen Golden, can work with you to establish or refine the tracking, analysis and reporting of user behaviors on your website or other digital initiative. Archiving Faculty Research /services/archiving-faculty-research Donate your research to the HBS Archives. 67 34944 Archiving Faculty Research /services/archiving-faculty-research Donate your research to the HBS Archives. 67 34944 Add My Librarian Item Archiving Faculty Research Donate your research to the HBS Archives. Book Delivery /services/book-delivery HBS faculty can now have books delivered directly to their office. 67 52946 Book Delivery /services/book-delivery HBS faculty can now have books delivered directly to their office. 67 52946 Add My Librarian Item Book Delivery HBS faculty can now have books delivered directly to their office. Borrow Direct & Interlibrary Loan /services/borrow-direct-interlibrary-loan Harvard Library tools and services that facilitate the access & delivery of books and articles from Borrow Direct affiliated libraries and interlibrary loan (borrowing from other libraries). 67 34934 Borrow Direct & Interlibrary Loan /services/borrow-direct-interlibrary-loan Harvard Library tools and services that facilitate the access & delivery of books and articles from Borrow Direct affiliated libraries and interlibrary loan (borrowing from other libraries). 67 34934 Add My Librarian Item Borrow Direct & Interlibrary Loan Harvard Library tools and services that facilitate the access & delivery of books and articles from Borrow Direct affiliated libraries and interlibrary loan (borrowing from other libraries). Buying and Licensing Data /services/buying-and-licensing-data If the data you need requires a Data Use Agreement, or a purchase out of your research budget, we will facilitate that process. 67 34942 Buying and Licensing Data /services/buying-and-licensing-data If the data you need requires a Data Use Agreement, or a purchase out of your research budget, we will facilitate that process. 67 34942 Add My Librarian Item Buying and Licensing Data If the data you need requires a Data Use Agreement, or a purchase out of your research budget, we will facilitate that process. Consultations /services/consultations Do you want to schedule a research consultation with a Baker librarian? Find out more about how we can help. 67 36001 Consultations /services/consultations Do you want to schedule a research consultation with a Baker librarian? Find out more about how we can help. 67 36001 Add My Librarian Item Consultations Do you want to schedule a research consultation with a Baker librarian? Find out more about how we can help. Course Services /services/course-services Learn how Baker Library provides course services to support both your teaching and your students' learning. 67 34970 Course Services /services/course-services Learn how Baker Library provides course services to support both your teaching and your students' learning. 67 34970 Add My Librarian Item Course Services Learn how Baker Library provides course services to support both your teaching and your students' learning. Data Creation & Data Collection /services/data-creation-data-collection Baker Library's deep expertise with the licensed and publically available databases, as well as print collections, enables us to efficiently and effectively download, scrape, merge, and clean data from disparate sources 67 34945 Data Creation & Data Collection /services/data-creation-data-collection Baker Library's deep expertise with the licensed and publically available databases, as well as print collections, enables us to efficiently and effectively download, scrape, merge, and clean data from disparate sources 67 34945 Add My Librarian Item Data Creation & Data Collection Baker Library's deep expertise with the licensed and publically available databases, as well as print collections, enables us to efficiently and effectively download, scrape, merge, and clean data from disparate sources Data Deposit Service /services/data-deposit-service Baker Library staff can help faculty to share their data. 67 49242 Data Deposit Service /services/data-deposit-service Baker Library staff can help faculty to share their data. 67 49242 Add My Librarian Item Data Deposit Service Baker Library staff can help faculty to share their data. Data Permissions /services/data-permissions For data that is to be distributed, reproduced, or scraped, we offer services for evaluating terms of use for websites and datasets, obtaining permissions for copyrighted datasets that are openly accessible, and identifying the proper person for the researcher to contact for permissions and questions about data. 67 34978 Data Permissions /services/data-permissions For data that is to be distributed, reproduced, or scraped, we offer services for evaluating terms of use for websites and datasets, obtaining permissions for copyrighted datasets that are openly accessible, and identifying the proper person for the researcher to contact for permissions and questions about data. 67 34978 Add My Librarian Item Data Permissions For data that is to be distributed, reproduced, or scraped, we offer services for evaluating terms of use for websites and datasets, obtaining permissions for copyrighted datasets that are openly accessible, and identifying the proper person for the researcher to contact for permissions and questions about data. Data Wrangling & Analysis /services/data-wrangling-analysis Baker Research Services provides an array of data services including downloading, scraping, merging, and cleaning data from disparate sources from licensed and publicly available data sources, and the preparation of data for analysis. The team, comprised of data scientists, researchers, business information specialists, and librarians also offers a variety of analytical and data visualization services to support faculty research projects and publications using Baker collections and licensed and publicly available data sources. 67 34943 Data Wrangling & Analysis /services/data-wrangling-analysis Baker Research Services provides an array of data services including downloading, scraping, merging, and cleaning data from disparate sources from licensed and publicly available data sources, and the preparation of data for analysis. The team, comprised of data scientists, researchers, business information specialists, and librarians also offers a variety of analytical and data visualization services to support faculty research projects and publications using Baker collections and licensed and publicly available data sources. 67 34943 Add My Librarian Item Data Wrangling & Analysis Baker Research Services provides an array of data services including downloading, scraping, merging, and cleaning data from disparate sources from licensed and publicly available data sources, and the preparation of data for analysis. The team, comprised of data scientists, researchers, business information specialists, and librarians also offers a variety of analytical and data visualization services to support faculty research projects and publications using Baker collections and licensed and publicly available data sources. Digital Image Requests from Special Collections /services/digital-image-requests-from-special-collections Reproduction information 67 34956 Digital Image Requests from Special Collections /services/digital-image-requests-from-special-collections Reproduction information 67 34956 Add My Librarian Item Digital Image Requests from Special Collections Reproduction information Fact Checking and Background Information /services/fact-checking-and-background-information We can provide you with fact checking and background information for media interviews, teaching prep, and case writing. 67 34977 Fact Checking and Background Information /services/fact-checking-and-background-information We can provide you with fact checking and background information for media interviews, teaching prep, and case writing. 67 34977 Add My Librarian Item Fact Checking and Background Information We can provide you with fact checking and background information for media interviews, teaching prep, and case writing. Faculty Papers Program /services/faculty-papers-program Baker Library provides secure storage of faculty research and teaching files through the Faculty Papers Program. 67 489 Faculty Papers Program /services/faculty-papers-program Baker Library provides secure storage of faculty research and teaching files through the Faculty Papers Program. 67 489 Add My Librarian Item Faculty Papers Program Baker Library provides secure storage of faculty research and teaching files through the Faculty Papers Program. Faculty Purchase Requests /services/faculty-purchase-requests Baker staff is committed to providing timely acquisition of books, subscriptions, and other materials for faculty research and office collections. 67 52967 Faculty Purchase Requests /services/faculty-purchase-requests Baker staff is committed to providing timely acquisition of books, subscriptions, and other materials for faculty research and office collections. 67 52967 Add My Librarian Item Faculty Purchase Requests Baker staff is committed to providing timely acquisition of books, subscriptions, and other materials for faculty research and office collections. HBS Working Knowledge /services/hbs-working-knowledge Staffed by a small team of experienced journalists, Harvard Business School Working Knowledge publishes accessible feature articles about faculty research (and practice) for an audience of business practitioners. We also publish brief summaries of every working paper published through HBS. Our goal: to explain the practical relevance of economic research to a non-academic audience. 67 34931 HBS Working Knowledge /services/hbs-working-knowledge Staffed by a small team of experienced journalists, Harvard Business School Working Knowledge publishes accessible feature articles about faculty research (and practice) for an audience of business practitioners. We also publish brief summaries of every working paper published through HBS. Our goal: to explain the practical relevance of economic research to a non-academic audience. 67 34931 Add My Librarian Item HBS Working Knowledge Staffed by a small team of experienced journalists, Harvard Business School Working Knowledge publishes accessible feature articles about faculty research (and practice) for an audience of business practitioners. We also publish brief summaries of every working paper published through HBS. Our goal: to explain the practical relevance of economic research to a non-academic audience. Library Course Materials (Course Reserves & Durable Links) /services/library-course-materials-course-reserves-durable-links HBS faculty and staff may request links to database content for posting to the course platform or physical books for library reserves. 67 34971 Library Course Materials (Course Reserves & Durable Links) /services/library-course-materials-course-reserves-durable-links HBS faculty and staff may request links to database content for posting to the course platform or physical books for library reserves. 67 34971 Add My Librarian Item Library Course Materials (Course Reserves & Durable Links) HBS faculty and staff may request links to database content for posting to the course platform or physical books for library reserves. Library Tours /services/library-tours Tours are available for the HBS and Harvard communities in different formats to meet a variety of needs. We also offer tours to other visitors on a limited basis depending on the purpose of the tour and the availability of staff guides. 67 84271 Library Tours /services/library-tours Tours are available for the HBS and Harvard communities in different formats to meet a variety of needs. We also offer tours to other visitors on a limited basis depending on the purpose of the tour and the availability of staff guides. 67 84271 Add My Librarian Item Library Tours Tours are available for the HBS and Harvard communities in different formats to meet a variety of needs. We also offer tours to other visitors on a limited basis depending on the purpose of the tour and the availability of staff guides. Literature/Article Searches /services/literature-article-searches We can leverage your time and add value to your research by conducting a literature search to support your work, whether it be for a research project, for teaching prep, or to support your cases, articles, or books. 67 34973 Literature/Article Searches /services/literature-article-searches We can leverage your time and add value to your research by conducting a literature search to support your work, whether it be for a research project, for teaching prep, or to support your cases, articles, or books. 67 34973 Add My Librarian Item Literature/Article Searches We can leverage your time and add value to your research by conducting a literature search to support your work, whether it be for a research project, for teaching prep, or to support your cases, articles, or books. Metadata Management /services/metadata-management The Metadata team, led by Erin Wise, can work with you to create or improve the metadata for your information product (ex: website, database, newsletters). 67 52656 Metadata Management /services/metadata-management The Metadata team, led by Erin Wise, can work with you to create or improve the metadata for your information product (ex: website, database, newsletters). 67 52656 Add My Librarian Item Metadata Management The Metadata team, led by Erin Wise, can work with you to create or improve the metadata for your information product (ex: website, database, newsletters). Newsletters /services/newsletters Baker Library publishes a range of newsletters every week for different HBS audiences. 67 52503 Newsletters /services/newsletters Baker Library publishes a range of newsletters every week for different HBS audiences. 67 52503 Add My Librarian Item Newsletters Baker Library publishes a range of newsletters every week for different HBS audiences. Records Management Services /services/records-management-services Records management staff provide guidance and resources for all stages in the records and information lifecycle, from creating records through destruction of non-permanent records or the transfer of permanent records to the HBS Archives. 67 34968 Records Management Services /services/records-management-services Records management staff provide guidance and resources for all stages in the records and information lifecycle, from creating records through destruction of non-permanent records or the transfer of permanent records to the HBS Archives. 67 34968 Add My Librarian Item Records Management Services Records management staff provide guidance and resources for all stages in the records and information lifecycle, from creating records through destruction of non-permanent records or the transfer of permanent records to the HBS Archives. Research Assistance /services/research-assistance Baker Library offers access to a vast array of information resources. It also connects you to the broader resources of the Harvard University Libraries. With so many resources available, sometimes it's not easy to find and evaluate the information you need. Don't hesitate to ask for assistance. 67 48745 Research Assistance /services/research-assistance Baker Library offers access to a vast array of information resources. It also connects you to the broader resources of the Harvard University Libraries. With so many resources available, sometimes it's not easy to find and evaluate the information you need. Don't hesitate to ask for assistance. 67 48745 Add My Librarian Item Research Assistance Baker Library offers access to a vast array of information resources. It also connects you to the broader resources of the Harvard University Libraries. With so many resources available, sometimes it's not easy to find and evaluate the information you need. Don't hesitate to ask for assistance. Research Fellowships at Baker Library /services/research-fellowships-at-baker-library Information on fellowships that include support for research at Baker Library. 67 46542 Research Fellowships at Baker Library /services/research-fellowships-at-baker-library Information on fellowships that include support for research at Baker Library. 67 46542 Add My Librarian Item Research Fellowships at Baker Library Information on fellowships that include support for research at Baker Library. Research Services - Special Collections /services/research-services-special-collections Research archivists and librarians are available to work with you on your research project, identifying potential resources within the full range of materials in Special Collections. Interested in the history of HBS? Our research staff can conduct in-depth research within the HBS Archives for HBS faculty and staff. In addition, we offer name search services within our most heavily used collection, the R.G. Dun & Co. Credit Reports. 67 52606 Research Services - Special Collections /services/research-services-special-collections Research archivists and librarians are available to work with you on your research project, identifying potential resources within the full range of materials in Special Collections. Interested in the history of HBS? Our research staff can conduct in-depth research within the HBS Archives for HBS faculty and staff. In addition, we offer name search services within our most heavily used collection, the R.G. Dun & Co. Credit Reports. 67 52606 Add My Librarian Item Research Services - Special Collections Research archivists and librarians are available to work with you on your research project, identifying potential resources within the full range of materials in Special Collections. Interested in the history of HBS? Our research staff can conduct in-depth research within the HBS Archives for HBS faculty and staff. In addition, we offer name search services within our most heavily used collection, the R.G. Dun & Co. Credit Reports. Research Services-Special Collections /services/services-for-faculty-staff/research-services-special-collections Research archivists and librarians are available to work with you to identify and review potential resources for your research project. 67 46871 Research Services-Special Collections /services/services-for-faculty-staff/research-services-special-collections Research archivists and librarians are available to work with you to identify and review potential resources for your research project. 67 46871 Add My Librarian Item Research Services-Special Collections Research archivists and librarians are available to work with you to identify and review potential resources for your research project. Semantic Search Management /services/semantic-search-management The Semantic Search team, led by Carol Ellerbeck, works to continually improve the search experience on the Baker Library website by analyzing search statistics; identifying, reviewing and developing vocabularies and entities; managing search pipelines, and more. 67 52667 Semantic Search Management /services/semantic-search-management The Semantic Search team, led by Carol Ellerbeck, works to continually improve the search experience on the Baker Library website by analyzing search statistics; identifying, reviewing and developing vocabularies and entities; managing search pipelines, and more. 67 52667 Add My Librarian Item Semantic Search Management The Semantic Search team, led by Carol Ellerbeck, works to continually improve the search experience on the Baker Library website by analyzing search statistics; identifying, reviewing and developing vocabularies and entities; managing search pipelines, and more. Taxonomy Development /services/taxonomy-development The taxonomy team, led by Donna Popky, can work with you to research, define, create, and integrate topics, industry and location for the content on your HBS websites, in your research, or in any information product. 67 52659 Taxonomy Development /services/taxonomy-development The taxonomy team, led by Donna Popky, can work with you to research, define, create, and integrate topics, industry and location for the content on your HBS websites, in your research, or in any information product. 67 52659 Add My Librarian Item Taxonomy Development The taxonomy team, led by Donna Popky, can work with you to research, define, create, and integrate topics, industry and location for the content on your HBS websites, in your research, or in any information product. Workshops /services/workshops Baker Library provides workshops, presentations and information sessions for faculty, students and alumni; as well as directly to students in the classroom. Learn more about our presentations, including how to schedule one for your course or club. 67 34966 Workshops /services/workshops Baker Library provides workshops, presentations and information sessions for faculty, students and alumni; as well as directly to students in the classroom. Learn more about our presentations, including how to schedule one for your course or club. 67 34966 Add My Librarian Item Workshops Baker Library provides workshops, presentations and information sessions for faculty, students and alumni; as well as directly to students in the classroom. Learn more about our presentations, including how to schedule one for your course or club. Resources Baker Research Services (BRS) Alex Caracuzzo acaracuzzo@hbs.edu 617.495.2492 Curriculum & Learning Services (CLS) Meghan Dolan mdolan@hbs.edu 617.495.5879 Special Collections (SC) Laura Linard llinard@hbs.edu 617.495.6360 Related Services Research Data Program Back to top Today's HoursAll Hours Connect with Baker Map & Contacts Know Before You Go Library Spaces Staff Directory About the Library B4B Product Catalog Books@Baker Annual Reports Harvard Business School Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6040 Email: infoservices@hbs.edu Maps and Directions Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes All Social Media Jobs Trademarks Site Map Harvard University Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 President & Fellows of Harvard College.