Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Giving Graduate Admission Academic Programs Current Graduate Students Contact Giving Giving Overview Ways of Giving Giving Online Boston College seeks to achieve quality recognition and ranking as a highly focused research and graduate institution—recognizing the important roles that our graduate programs play in ensuring the excellence of our faculty, our research programs, and our learning environment. For more than 80 years, the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences has offered quality graduate education in the humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences. We currently compete with some of the best universities in the world, but our riches lie predominantly in the outstanding people who join us as students and faculty. Together, our students and faculty contribute their scholarly and professional achievements to the reputation of the University. None of these achievements would have been possible without your contributions to the legacy of your alma mater. Your continued involvement in Boston College programs and your financial support are crucial to continuing our forward momentum. Thank you for all you have done and all that you continue to do for Boston College. We look forward to reporting to you on the continued success of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. There are many ways to make a gift or to fulfill a pledge to the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences. Each has its distinctive benefit, depending on the type of asset contributed, the form of gift selected, and the donor's age. University Advancement is prepared to work with donors to fashion the most beneficial gift for the donor, for the donor's family, and for the Graduate School. Outright Gifts The quickest way to make a gift is outright, either by check or credit card. Appreciated securities can also be donated. This donation allows the individual to avoid capital gains taxes on the contributed shares and to be credited with a gift valued at the full fair market value of the shares. Giving Online Life Income Gifts Federal tax laws provide ways to structure a gift that provides a stream of income to the donor and/or another beneficiary the donor may name, while giving the donor a charitable deduction for his or her philanthropy. The most commonly used gift vehicles are charitable gift annuities and charitable remainder trusts. Life income gifts provide an immediate charitable deduction to the donor, even though the Graduate School's use of the contributed assets is deferred until the term of the gift vehicle has expired. With life income gifts it is frequently possible to improve the level of the donor's annual income, even while expressing one's philanthropic interest in the Graduate School. Through such charitable gifts, a donor may also actually improve the value of the estate he or she wishes to leave to heirs. In the final analysis, the potential advantages of such gift arrangements often enable individuals to make charitable gifts at levels much higher than they thought possible. Life Insurance A life insurance policy, no longer needed for its original purpose, is another possibility. This can be contributed to teh Graduate School at the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences by irrevocably transferring ownership of the policy to Boston College, designating the Graduate School as the beneficiary. In general, gift credit is given for the cash surrender value and that value may be claimed as an income tax deduction in the transfer year. Bequests Donors may include the Graduate School at the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences as a beneficiary of their estate. Bequests may be made for a specific amount or for a percentage of the residual estate, after all specific bequests have been fulfilled. To discuss any options that may interest you, contact the Office of University Advancement at Boston College. The information on this site is not intended as legal, tax or investment advice. For such advice, please consult an attorney, tax professional, or investment professional. To make a donatation to the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, please visit the University’s Boston College Fund website and complete the following steps: About You About Your Gift Please make sure to assign your gift to the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences by using the drop-down menu. About Payment The online-giving form is completely secure and takes only minutes to complete. Please take a few moments to designate your gift to the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences. Your gift will help in many ways, from support for students, faculty and staff, to facility improvements. Every dollar counts. We thank you for your gift! Back To Top Back To Top Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 108 617-552-3265 gsasinfo@bc.edu About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College