Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons Learning Commons Learn Together. Learning Commons. The Learning Commons provides free centralized academic support for all University of Cincinnati students. We bring together hundreds of outstanding peer educators, faculty, and best-practices in teaching and learning to create flexible academic success programming. Schedule a Service View All Learning Commons Services Meet our Professional Staff Download Appointment Scheduling Instructions Updates and Information *New Update for Summer* You asked and we listened - we have upgraded our scheduling website! TracCloud is the new website to schedule Learning Commons services and provides a much better experience. Access TracCloud via the "Schedule a Service" button above. Scroll down to view a video on how to schedule a service in TracCloud. As a reminder, if the University is closed for a Reading Day or a Holiday, the Learning Commons is also closed. Please see the Weather Policy for inclement weather days. Check the individual program pages to learn more about the service, the operating hours, and the method of access (in-person, online, or both). In-person appointments are available on both Clifton's campus and Clermont's campus. Be sure to make note of the location when making your appointment! The Learning Commons is available to students on Clifton's, Clermont's, and Blue Ash's campuses. Clifton Learning Commons: 2510B French Hall West, (513) 556-3244, LearningCommons@uc.edu Clifton Math and Science Support (MASS) Center: 2133 French Hall West, 513-556-1467, mass@uc.edu Clifton Academic Writing Center (AWC): 401N Langsam Library, (513) 556-3912, AcadWC@uc.edu Clermont Learning Commons and AWC: 106 Edith Peters-Jones, (513) 558-8319, UCCLearningCommons@uc.edu > Each year more than 6,000 students take advantage of Learning Commons programs to build confidence, integrate on campus, and master challenging course content. These programs include: One-on-one and group-based tutoring in more than 200 courses A nationally-recognized Learning Communities program that brings together first-year students and campus mentors to promote social integration and academic success Academic Coaching for students seeking improved organization, motivation, and learning strategies Learning Assistants for faculty who use active and collaborative teaching methods Collaborative learning opportunities such as our Success Skills Workshops or Supplemental Instruction program We offer credit-bearing, drop-in, and appointment-based options. Students can schedule a service on TracCloud, our scheduling website. Service hours, drop-in schedules, and enrollment instructions can be found on each program's page. UC Faculty & Staff Please visit the Learning Commons site on Bearcats Landing for information specific for Faulty and Staff. If you are seeking to collaborate to promote student success for your students, please feel free to reach out to us at LearningCommons@uc.edu. To request a presenation from the Learning Commons, please click the button below. Request a Presentation Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top