Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department Community Services Camera Network Police Department About UHPD Records and Reports Safety & Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfer Requests Policies & Training Contact UHPD Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu Camera Network The University of Houston Police Department currently monitors 1400 security cameras in their virtual patrol room. These cameras cover campus parking lots, buildings and high pedestrian traffic areas. This is an important development, and I would like to explain why we’re doing it and how it works. The safety of our campus community is the driving force of UHPD. Reducing the opportunity for individuals to commit crimes on campus is crucial to providing a safe learning and working environment. This is the primary reason we are implementing a plan to install additional video security cameras in selected areas. The plan calls for video monitoring of all campus parking lots and other selected areas. We will integrate the existing cameras into the new security camera system and create a single monitoring station staffed by UHPD personnel. As in the past, we will post highly visible signage informing the public that they may be under video surveillance on campus. Cameras will record 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. The types of criminal activity the video security system is anticipated to monitor include: assaults and robberies, auto thefts and thefts from a vehicle, and university or personal property damage. The records generated by the video security camera system will be used exclusively by UHPD in the event an investigation of criminal activity is required. These records will not be used for the investigation of administrative violations unless that violation also constitutes a criminal act. The UH community can rest assured that the system will not violate a person’s reasonable expectation of privacy, and cameras will not be installed in restrooms, dressing and locker rooms, living quarters and examining areas in the UH Health Center. UHPD also is making the system available to colleges and/or divisions. Deans, chairmen and department administrators may ask the university to install video cameras in their specific buildings or areas. These cameras will be tied into our virtual patrol room. To take advantage of the system, the college, division or department can pay for the camera(s) or submit a request for cameras to the UH Safety and Security Committee. While the video security camera system will greatly assist UHPD in our efforts to reduce the opportunity to commit crimes on campus, it does not replace the value and necessity of the campus community in acting as extra ears and eyes. We encourage you to remain cognizant of your surroundings while on campus and report suspicious people and activities. 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies