Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Student Center and Activities Student Organizations Student Organizations Guidelines and Funding Options Student Organization Resources Hughes-Trigg Student Center Hughes-Trigg Student Center Welcome Desk HTSC Renovations Event Information Event Information HTSC Event Calendar Reservation Rates Room Features HTSC Procedures About Us ☰ Student Center and Activities Discover your passion. Find your SMU. SMU Student Affairs Student Center and Activities Student Center and Activities' mission is to create experiences and spaces that encourage students to discover their interests and find a sense of belonging. Student Organizations Check out the helpful resources and guidelines for SMU student organizations. Learn More Campus Event Calendar Attend an event and connect with others! Find an event Hughes-Trigg Student Center HTSC is the main hub for student activities at SMU. Find out everything Hughes-Trigg has to offer to the SMU community. Visit Hughes-Trigg Hughes-Trigg Reimagined Learn more about the renovations happening at HTSC and get a sneak peek at what is to come. Refreshed & Reimagined Make friends Build skills Explore your interests Previous Next pause play hide show Find YOUR Organization Connect.SMU Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share