Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search RSMAS Home Rosenstiel Home Admissions Home Academic Departments Ph.D. and M.S. Programs Atmospheric Science Climate and Health Data Science Environmental Science and Policy Marine Biology and Ecology Marine Geosciences Meteorology and Physical Oceanography Ocean Engineering Ocean Sciences Master of Professional Science Admissions Welcome from Associate Dean Application Information Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid Ph.D. Assistantships Tour Request Virtual Tour Undergraduate Prep Students Awards Course Schedules Forms, Guidelines, and Handbooks Ph.D. Assistantships Student Directory Student Organizations Contact Us Apply Now Ph.D. and M.S. Programs Master of Professional Science Admissions Students Contact Us Apply Now Search Ph.D. and M.S. Programs Atmospheric Science Climate and Health Data Science Environmental Science and Policy Marine Biology and Ecology Marine Geosciences Meteorology and Physical Oceanography Ocean Engineering Ocean Sciences Master of Professional Science Admissions Welcome from Associate Dean Application Information Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid Ph.D. Assistantships Tour Request Virtual Tour Undergraduate Prep Students Awards Course Schedules Forms, Guidelines, and Handbooks Ph.D. Assistantships Student Directory Student Organizations Contact Us Apply Now GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Home Admissions Ph.D. Assistantships AAA Assistantships 2022 Ph.D. Assistantships We have several Ph.D. research assistantships available in fall 2022. The list below contains some of our available assistantships. Please note that this is not a complete list of opportunities. Prospective students are welcome to reach out to any individual faculty member or the graduate program director to learn more. Applications for assistantship positions must be submitted directly to the RSMAS Graduate Studies Office using the instructions available here: https://graduate.rsmas.miami.edu/admissions/application-information/ The majority of Ph.D. students are supported as Graduate Research Assistants during their tenure (typically 5 years). These assistantships provide an annual salary of $35, 100, and tuition and health insurance is provided for all students. Fall 2022 applications received prior to January 8, 2022 will be reviewed. In order to increase the chance of an assistantship, applications are encouraged by December 1, 2021. Fall 2023 Cassandra Gaston, ATM/OCE Ph.D. Assistantship Impact of Aerosols on Oceans and Rainforests Website Fall 2022 Abess Center Ph.D. Fellowship Opportunities, EVR Ph.D. Assistantship Environmental Science and Policy Ph.D. Program Website Elizabeth Babcock, MBE Ph.D. Assistantship Science support for Ecosystem Based Fishery Management in the Gulf of Mexico Website Amy Clement, ATM Ph.D. Assistantship Examining the causes of trends in the context of a variable subpolar North Atlantic ocean Website Martin Grosell, MBE Ph.D. Assistantship The role of marine teleost fish in the inorganic carbon cycle Website Adam Holt, MGS Ph.D. Assistantship Constraining multi-scale interactions between slabs and mantle flow within Western Pacific subduction zones Website Katharine Mach, EVR Ph.D. Assistantship Flood risk & climate change preparedness Website Amanda Oehlert, MGS Ph.D. Assistantship Investigating the role of metastable carbonates in the oceanic carbon cycle Website Amanda Oehlert, MGS Ph.D. Assistantship Shallow marine diagenesis in 3D Website Lynn (Nick) Shay, MPO/OCE Ph.D. Assistantship Ocean-Atmosphere Interactions During Hurricanes Website University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Ph.D. and M.S. Programs at the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences 4600 Rickenbacker Causeway Miami, FL 33149-1031 Phone: 305-421-4155 Phone: 305-421-4155 Email: gso@rsmas.miami.edu Resources Give to Rosenstiel School About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Shuttle Schedule Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram social-linkedin social-google-plus Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices