Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Maguire Center Events Events 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times J. Erik Jonsson Ethics Award Delta Gamma Lectureship in Values and Ethics Ethics & Compliance Certificate Public Scholar Lecture Conference of the Professions Past Events Student Engagement Student Engagement The Ethics Essay Prize Public Service Fellowships Teaching and Research Teaching and Research Teaching Fellowship Public Scholars Faculty Incentive Grant Program Resources Resources COVID-19 SMU Ethics Toolbox Papers Sound Ethics Research Newsletter Newsroom Newsroom From the Director's Desk Ethics Blog About Us About Us Leadership Cary M. Maguire Ethics Center Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee Contact Give ☰ Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility About Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Advisory Committee The Faculty Advisory Committee consists of selected senior faculty members from SMU and the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas. The committee provides invaluable assistance to the Center's director in setting priorities and carrying out the Maguire Center programs. Ann Batenburg Department of Teaching & Learning Rebekah Miles Perkins School of Theology Caroline Brettell Department of Anthropology Daniel Orlovsky Department of History Charles E. Curran Scurlock University Professor of Human Values Tony Pederson Belo Distinguished Chair in Journalism and Professor, Department of Journalism Fred Grinnell Department of Cell Biology, UT Southwestern Medical Center Helen Reynolds Department of Economics Kenneth M. Hamilton Department of History John Z. Sadler Department of Psychiatry, Director of Ethics in Science and Medicine, UT Southwestern Medical Center Alice Kendrick Temerlin Advertising Institute Carolyn Smith-Morris Department of Anthropology Maribeth Kuenzi Cox School of Business Aurelie Thiele EMIS, Lyle School of Engineering Carrie La Ferle Temerlin Advertising Institute Theodore D. Walker Perkins School of Theology Bruce Levy SMU Center for Inter-Community Experience Bonnie Wheeler Department of English About Leadership Cary M. Maguire Ethics Center Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee Contact Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share