HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation FAQs CARE Report FAQs Notification of Absence FAQs Students FAQs Faculty & Staff FAQs Families FAQs ABOUT CONTACT CARE Network Report Filing a CARE Network Report is NOT appropriate if the student or situation requires immediate attention or there is an emergency of any kind. Instead, please call 911 or the Clemson University Police Department at 864-656-2222. File a CARE Network Report Important Additional Information Filing a CARE Network Report is not appropriate if the student or situation requires immediate attention or there is an emergency of any kind. Instead, please call 911 or the Clemson University Police Department at 864-656-2222. If a current student poses a threat of harm to self or others, please call the Clemson University Police Department immediately at 864-656-2222. CARE reports will be reviewed within one (1) business day; however, CARE reports are not reviewed outside of business hours (Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m.- 4:30 p.m.) or during holiday breaks . Once the CARE report has been reviewed, a clearly defined level of care protocol is used to determine the most appropriate steps. We will follow up with the person(s) who submit CARE reports only when additional information is needed. If you have submitted a CARE report and have more information to share or questions, please call us at 864-656-0935. Click for FAQS regarding CARE reports Click to view a list of resources and referrals the Office of Advocacy and Success frequently provides students. The CARE Network is designed to be one of the ways to help connect current students with the resources to help support them. Common reasons for a CARE Network referral can include, but are not limited to the following: Academic Concerns Adjustment Issues Behavioral Concerns Career or Graduation Death or Grief Financial Personal Health or Wellness Relationships or Student Engagement Other Concerns CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster