Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Alzheimer's Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Missing Link Between Alzheimer’s and Vascular Disease Found? A gene called FMNL2 may explain why people with hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, or obesity have a greater risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Topic Neurology In Alzheimer's, Aged "Railroad Tracks" Within Neurons May Impair Memory One of the cell's most common proteins may become too old and too stable in Alzheimer’s disease, altering neuronal activity and impairing memory. Topic Aging Dementia and COVID: What Families and Physicians Should Know In people with dementia, delirium during COVID-19 is more common but deaths from COVID-19 are not disproportionately higher, finds a new study. Topic COVID-19 Central Trafficking Compartment in Neurons Malfunctions in a Majority of Alzheimer’s Patients A new Columbia study suggests that malfunctioning endosomes—a central trafficking station inside neurons—are commonly involved in the appearance of Alzheimer’s disease. Topic Neurology Latest News Sabrina Diano Brings Brain Research Focus to Institute of Human Nutrition November 12, 2020 Ancient parts of the brain may hold secrets that help explain the drive to eat and how eating may affect brain health. Sabrina Diano, the new Institute of Human Nutrition director, is investigating. Topic Nutrition Study Finds New Genetic Risk Factors for Alzheimer’s Disease in Blacks October 21, 2020 A new study of Alzheimer’s genes suggests the disease in Blacks and whites is largely the same, but genetic changes that increase the risk of developing the disease differ between the two groups. Topic Neurology Alzheimer's: New Gene May Drive Earliest Brain Changes June 22, 2020 A newly discovered Alzheimer’s gene appears to drive the first appearance of amyloid plaque in the brain and could lead to new therapies that prevent the disease from developing. Topic Neurology New Details of Toxic Alzheimer's Protein Revealed February 24, 2020 A new study shows how modifications to the tau protein may influence the different ways it can misfold in the brain, which is closely linked to the type of neurodegenerative disease that develops. Topic Neuroscience Illiteracy Linked to Higher Risk of Dementia January 2, 2020 Dementia is three times more common in older adults who are illiterate, a new study from Columbia has found. Topic Neurology Will a Treatment for Alzheimer’s Ever Be Found? November 22, 2019 Researchers had high hopes for Alzheimer’s drugs that clear amyloid from the brain, but none of the drugs have slowed the disease. Columbia’s Scott Small says he has new reasons to be optimistic. Topic Neurology Link Between Hearing and Cognition Begins Earlier Than Once Thought November 14, 2019 A new study finds that cognitive impairment begins in the earliest stages of age-related hearing loss—when hearing is still considered normal. Topic Neurology In Blacks with Alzheimer’s Gene, Higher Education May Be Protective November 1, 2019 A new study from Columbia University found that a higher level of education protected against cognitive decline in black people with a gene linked to Alzheimer’s disease. Topic Neurology How Exercise May Protect Against Alzheimer’s February 8, 2019 A hormone called irisin–produced during exercise–may protect neurons against Alzheimer’s disease. Topic Neurology Neurons with Good Housekeeping Are Protected from Alzheimer’s December 17, 2018 A new study shows how cellular “housekeeping” protects some neurons against the toxic proteins of Alzheimer’s disease and suggests new treatment possibilities. Topic Neurology Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top