Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content About Us Student Handbook Student Handbook Handbook Archive Student Conduct Student Conduct Conduct Review Process Honor Council Submit an Incident Report Student Advocacy & Support Student Advocacy & Support Caring Community Connections The Shop at SMU Medical Withdrawal Process Violence Prevention Student Programs Student Programs Student Reps to the Board of Trustees Giving ☰ Student Conduct and Community Standards Conduct Review Process Student Organization Conduct Status Student Organization Conduct Status The following student organizations at SMU have been found responsible for violating the SMU Student Code of Conduct within the last three years. Information listed below is current as of May 5, 2022. Beta Theta Pi Date of Conduct Process Resolution: March 12, 2020 Date Conduct Investigation Initiated: March 10, 2020 Date of Report to Institution: n/a Date of Incident: February 26 and March 2, 2020 General Description of Incident: Beta Theta Pi was allegedly hazing new members of their organization by requiring members to send pornographic images to other members of the chapter. It was also reported that new members were required to engage in activities that can be considered servitude. Student Code of Conduct Violations: Hazing, Alcohol, Irresponsible Conduct, and Harassment University Findings: Beta Theta Pi was found responsible for violating the following policies: Hazing, Alcohol, Irresponsible Conduct, and Harassment. University Sanctions: Resolution includes Conduct Probation through December 31, 2021 and the completion of an Organization Accountability Agreement, which outlines several educational programs and requirements. Date of Conduct Process Resolution: May 11, 2021 Date Conduct Investigation Initiated: February 1, 2021 Date of Report to Institution: n/a Date of Incident: Between January 24, 2021 and January 31, 2021 General Description of Incident: Beta Theta Pi was allegedly hazing new members of their organization by requiring new members to perform calisthenics, consume distasteful food, and perform acts of servitude. New members were also exposed to activities that adversely affected their physical health and safety. Student Code of Conduct Violations: Beta Theta Pi was charged with violating the following policies: Hazing, Irresponsible Conduct, and Laws and University Policy. University Findings: Beta Theta Pi was found responsible forviolating the following policies: Hazing, Irresponsible Conduct, and Laws and University Policy. University Sanctions: Resolution includes an Organization Accountability Agreement, which outlines several educational programs and requirements effective until May 15, 2023 Delta Delta Delta Date of Conduct Process Resolution: May 4, 2021 Date Conduct Investigation Initiated: March 25, 2021 Date of Report to Institution: n/a Date of Incident: February 26, 2021 General Description of Incident: Delta Delta Delta was allegedly hazing by subjecting new members to activities that caused shame or humiliation. Student Code of Conduct Violations: Delta Delta Delta was charged with violating the following policies: Hazing, Alcohol, Irresponsible Conduct, Laws and University Policy, and Failure to Comply. University Findings: Delta Delta Delta was found responsible for violating the following policies: Hazing, Alcohol, Irresponsible Conduct, Laws and University Policy, and Failure to Comply. University Sanctions: Resolution includes an Organization Accountability Agreement, which outlines several educational programs and requirements effective until May 15, 2023. Kappa Alpha Theta Date of Conduct Process Resolution: December 18, 2020 Date Conduct Investigation Initiated: November 11, 2020 Date of Report to Institution: n/a Date of Incident: October 28, 2020 General Description of Incident: Kappa Alpha Theta was allegedly hazing potential new members through forced consumption of alcohol at an off-campus location. Student Code of Conduct Violations: Kappa Alpha Theta was charged with violating the following policies: Alcohol, Irresponsible Conduct, and Hazing. University Findings: Kappa Alpha Theta was found responsible for violating the following policies: Irresponsible Conduct, Alcohol, and Hazing. University Sanctions: Resolution includes the completion of an Organization Accountability Agreement, which outlines several educational programs and requirements. Phi Delta Theta Date of Conduct Process Resolution: January 31, 2022 Date Conduct Investigation Initiated: November 11, 2021 Date of Report to Institution: October 25, 2021 Date of Incident: September 25, 2021 General Description of Incident: Phi Delta Theta allegedly hosted an unregistered off-campus event with alcohol and damaged private property. Student Code of Conduct Violations: Phi Delta Theta was charged with Alcohol, Irresponsible Conduct, and Laws & University Policy University or Court Findings: Phi Delta Theta was found responsible for Alcohol, Irresponsible Conduct, and Laws & University Policy University Sanctions or Court Fines: The resolution included Conduct Probation until December 16, 2022, and educational sanctions and requirements. Pi Kappa Alpha Date of Conduct Process Resolution: March 26, 2018 Date Conduct Investigation Initiated: February 9, 2018 Date of Report to Institution: February 9, 2018 Date of Incident: February 9, 2018 General Description of Incident: Pi Kappa Alpha was allegedly hazing new members of their organization through forced consumption of distasteful substances. Student Code of Conduct Violations: Pi Kappa Alpha was charged with violating the following policy: Hazing. University or Court Findings: Pi Kappa Alpha was found responsible for violating the following policies: Hazing. University Sanctions or Court Fines: Resolution includes the suspension of the organization until Fall 2022. Sigma Phi Epsilon Date of Conduct Process Resolution: March 16, 2021 Date Conduct Investigation Initiated: December 7, 2020 Date of Report to Institution: N/a Date of Incident: October 29, 2020, November 1, 2020, November 13, 2020 and November 25, 2020 General Description of Incident: Sigma Phi Epsilon allegedly provided alcohol to under aged students, failed to comply with expectations outlined in the Pledge to Protect Our SMU Community, and damaged university property. Student Code of Conduct Violations: Sigma Phi Epsilon was charged with: Alcohol, Failure to Comply, Irresponsible Conduct, Respect for Property and Environment University Findings: Sigma Phi Epsilon was found responsible for violating the following policies: Alcohol, Failure to Comply, Irresponsible Conduct, Respect for Property and Environment University Sanctions: Resolution includes the completion of an Organization Accountability Agreement, which outlines several educational programs and requirements effective through May 15, 2023. Date of Conduct Process Resolution: July 29, 2021 Date Conduct Investigation Initiated: May 7, 2021 Date of Report to Institution: April 27, 2021 Date of Incident: N/A General Description of Incident: Sigma Phi Epsilon allegedly disregarded the terms of the original OAA and directives by university officials. Student Code of Conduct Violations: Sigma Phi Epsilon was charged with: Dishonesty, Irresponsible Conduct, Failure to Comply, and Interference. University Findings: Sigma Phi Epsilon was found responsible for violating the following policies: Dishonesty, Irresponsible Conduct, Failure to Comply, and Interference. University Sanctions: Resolution includes the completion of an Organization Accountability Agreement, which outlines several educational programs and requirements effective through May 15, 2025 and Suspension of the organization until May 15, 2023. SMU Student Code of Conduct violations with completed sanctions within the last three years. Information listed below is current as of May 5, 2022. Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated Date of Conduct Process Resolution: June 9, 2017 Date Conduct Investigation Initiated: May 10, 2017 Date of Report to Institution: n/a Date of Incident: n/a General Description of Incident: Alpha Kappa Alpha allegedly exhibited an environment consisting of abusive treatment of members and hazing of new members. Student Code of Conduct Violations: Alpha Kappa Alpha was charged with violating the following policies: Irresponsible Conduct, Harassment, and Hazing. University Findings: Alpha Kappa Alpha was found responsible for violating the following policies: Irresponsible Conduct, Harassment, and Hazing. University Sanctions: Resolution includes an Organizational Accountability Agreement and Conduct Probation until Fall 2019. Kappa Alpha Order Date of Conduct Process Resolution: October 4, 2017 Date Conduct Investigation Initiated: September 13, 2017 Date of Report to Institution: n/a Date of Incident: n/a General Description of Incident: Kappa Alpha Order was allegedly hazing new members of their organization through paddling, servitude, forcing new members to consume alcohol, forcing new members to participate in calisthenics, forcing new members to consume various food items and liquids until vomiting was induced, forcing new members to wear clothing soiled with vomit, sleep deprivation, and "underground" membership. Student Code of Conduct Violations: Kappa Alpha Order was charged with violating the following policies: Irresponsible Conduct, Laws & University Policy, Interference, Harassment, and Hazing. University Findings: Kappa Alpha Order was found responsible for violating the following policies: Irresponsible Conduct, Laws & University Policy, Interference, Harassment, and Hazing. University Sanctions: Resolution includes the suspension of the organization until Fall 2021. Phi Gamma Delta Date of Conduct Process Resolution: April 2, 2018 Date Conduct Investigation Initiated: February 15, 2018 Date of Report to Institution: n/a Date of Incident: February 14, 2018 and March 7, 2018 General Description of Incident: Phi Gamma Delta was allegedly hazing members involving forced testing of Chapter history in dark rooms and not being allowed to wear clean clothes. Student Code of Conduct Violations: Phi Gamma Delta was charged with Alcohol, Hazing, Irresponsible Conduct, and Laws & University Policy. University Findings: Phi Gamma Delta was found responsible for Alcohol, Irresponsible Conduct and Laws & University Policy. University Sanctions: Sanctions included an Organizational Accountability Agreement and Deferred Suspension until the end of Spring 2020. Sigma Alpha Epsilon Sigma Alpha Epsilon Date of Conduct Process Resolution: May 5, 2017 Date Conduct Investigation Initiated: May 2, 2017 Date of Report to Institution: n/a Date of Incident: n/a General Description of Incident: Sigma Alpha Epsilon was allegedly hazing new members through servitude and possible physical abuse. Student Code of Conduct Violations: Sigma Alpha Epsilon was charged with violating the following policies: Alcohol and Hazing. University Findings: Sigma Alpha Epsilon was found responsible for violating the following policies: Hazing. University Sanctions: Resolution includes an Alternative Resolution Agreement and Deferred Suspension through May 31, 2020. Sigma Chi Date of Conduct Process Resolution: February 8, 2019 Date Conduct Investigation Initiated: January 25, 2019 Date of Report to Institution: n/a Date of Incident: January 23, 2019 General Description Incident: Sigma Chi was possibly endangering their members, having an off-campus party with large quantities of alcohol being provided to underage members resulting in a student being taken to the hospital. Student Code of Conduct Violations: Sigma Chi was charged with Irresponsible Conduct and Alcohol. University Findings: Sigma Chi was found responsible for Irresponsible Conduct and Alcohol. University Sanctions: Sanctions included an Organizational Accountability Agreement and Conduct Probation until the end of Spring, 2020. Sigma Phi Epsilon Date of Conduct Process Resolution: September 29, 2020 Date Conduct Investigation Initiated: September 15, 2020 Date of Report to Institution: August 27, 2020 Date of Incident: August 27, 2020 General Description of Incident: Sigma Phi Epsilon allegedly provided alcohol to under aged students and failed to comply with expectations outlined in the Pledge to Protect Our SMU Community. Student Code of Conduct Violations: Failure to Comply, Alcohol, and Irresponsible Conduct. University Findings: Sigma Phi Epsilon was found responsible for Failure to Comply, Alcohol and Irresponsible Conduct University Sanctions: Resolution includes the completion of an Organization Accountability Agreement and suspension until December 6, 2020. Sigma Nu Date of Conduct Process Resolution or Court Conviction: August 27, 2021 Date Conduct Investigation Initiated: January 11, 2021 Date of Report to Institution: December 17. 2020 Date of Hazing Incident or Citation: November 13, 2020 General Description of Hazing Incident: Sigma Nu allegedly provided alcohol to under aged students and failed to comply with expectations outlined in the Pledge to Protect Our SMU Community. Rules Violations or Criminal Charges: Sigma Nu was charged with violating the following policy: Failure to Comply, Alcohol, Irresponsible Conduct, Laws and University Policy, and Dishonesty. University or Court Findings: Sigma Nu was found responsible violating the following policy: Failure to Comply, Alcohol, Irresponsible Conduct, Laws and University Policy, and Dishonesty. University Sanctions or Court Fines: Resolution includes the completion of an Organization Accountability Agreement, which outlines several educational programs and requirements effective through December 31, 2021. Conduct Review Process Student Handbook Fine Payment Hazing Statement Student Organization Conduct Status Quick Links Student Handbook Caring Community Connections (CCC) Call for Help Program Conduct Fine Payments Academic Honesty Tutorial Welltrack Program Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share