Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Sociology Home News People Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs Ph.D. Program Master's in Social Analysis and Research Student Placements 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Site Navigation Home News People Faculty Office and TA Lab Hours Ph.D. Students Master's Students Staff Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs A.B. in Sociology Sc.B. in Social Analysis and Research Organizational Studies Track (S/OS) Honors Transfer Credit Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Ph.D. Program Funding Ph.D. Year by Year Awards Student Resources Student Publications Student Placements Master's in Social Analysis and Research Student Placements 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Applications FAQ Master's (Sc.M.) Program in Social Analysis and Research Director of MSAR: David Lindstrom Associate Director of MSAR: Carrie Spearin MSAR Student Handbook Careers in the 21st century increasingly place a premium on the ability to collect, process, analyze, and interpret large-scale data on human attributes, preferences, attitudes, and behaviors and complex systems of human interactions. Such skills have concrete application and relevance to a wide variety of careers, including market research, program evaluation, policy work, advanced study in the social sciences, and financial analysis. The McKinsey Global Institute, a management consulting group, estimates that by 2018, the US may face a 50-60% gap between the need for individuals who can analyze complex data and the supply of those with the training and skills to do so. The demand for data analysts requires professionals that are not only technically skilled, but also thoughtful about how best to use and interpret data. The STEM-designated master’s (Sc.M.) program in Social Analysis and Research (MSAR) in the Department of Sociology at Brown University trains students in advanced techniques for data collection and analysis. The hallmarks of the program are focused methodological training in both quantitative and qualitative methods of data collection and analysis, with cores in spatial analysis and market research, classroom instruction by active and internationally renowned researchers, and individualized supervision of applied, hands-on data analytic research on a faculty project or with an off-campus organization. Through this program, students will develop the pragmatic and logical skills that will prepare them for a career in social research, whether basic research (such as found in academia or research institutions) or applied (such as found in policy and market research). Students will put these newly developed skills to work, as they apply the techniques they learn to the analysis of actual data from the social sciences. The MSAR is ideal for early-career students who have an existing foundation in basic statistics and social science research and who desire more focused training in order to be not only prepared, but highly competitive, in acquiring careers in market or social research or as analysts at research and policy institutions. While this degree is based in the Sociology Department, its value extends across disciplines. Many of the MSAR faculty are associates of the Population Studies and Training Center (PSTC) at Brown, an interdisciplinary social science research and graduate training center. The Spatial Analysis courses in this program are taught by experts affiliated with the Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Initiative; and several of the courses in market research are taught by staff affiliated with the undergraduate program in Business, Entrepreneurship and Organizations (BEO). Completion Requirements The master’s program in Social Analysis and Research (MSAR) is a terminal degree program designed to be completed within one year. The program requires eight courses including an intensive Research Internship that is attached to a faculty Directed Research Practicum. Those students who enter the program as fifth-year Master’s students are allowed to use up to two undergraduate courses to count towards the eight credit requirements if the courses are among the required or elective courses for the program. All entering students are required to have (1) a one-semester introductory statistics course (SOC 1100 Introductory Statistics for Social Research or an equivalent), (2) a more advanced course in statistics or a course in college calculus (MATH 0050 and 0060, or MATH 0090 or above), and (3) a one-semester course in research methods (SOC 1020 or SOC 1050 or an equivalent). The Sc.M. degree in Social Analysis and Research consists of a total of 8 courses: Three Required courses: Multivariate Statistical Methods I (SOC 2010) Multivariate Statistical Methods II (SOC 2020) or Qualitative Methods (SOC 2210) Directed Research Practicum (SOC 2982) Five of any of the following elective advanced analysis courses across three topical areas: Qualitative Methods of Investigation and Market Research Focus Groups for Market and Social Research (SOC 1117) Context Research for Innovation (SOC 1118) Market and Social Surveys (SOC 1120) EPIC: Ethnographic Praxis in Industry (SOC 1127) Market Research in Public and Private Sectors (SOC 1260) Experiments on Race, Class and Gender (SOC 1290) Ethnography: Theory and Practice (SOC 2250) Fields and Methods of Social Research (SOC 2430) Comparative Historical Analysis (SOC 2600) Spatial Analysis Principles and Methods of Geographic Information Systems (SOC 1340) Geographical Analysis of Society (SOC 1871W) Spatial Thinking in Social Science (SOC 2610) Geographic Information Systems and Spatial Analysis for the Social Sciences (SOC 2612) Spatial Data Analysis Techniques in the Social Sciences (SOC 2960G) Applications in Geographic Information Systems (SOC 2961B) Advanced Multivariate Methods for Population Analysis and Behavioral Modeling Techniques of Demographic Analysis (SOC 2230) Event History Analysis (SOC 2240) Statistical Methods for Hierarchical and Panel Data (SOC 2960S) Causal Analysis (SOC 2960Y) Research Internship and Directed Research Practicum A one-semester research internship during the second semester is required. The research internship is designed to provide students with hands-on experience in social research. Students are assigned to an internship with a local organization in the for-profit or not-for-profit sector, or may work on a faculty research project. Admission Requirements Personal Statement: No longer than 2 pages in length outlining professional goals and commitment to pursuing a career in social analysis and research GRE General: Required GRE Subject: Not required Transcripts: Required from all post-secondary institutions of attendance Letters of Recommendation: Submit 3 letters of recommendation (at least one academic) TOEFL: Required for any international applicant whose undergraduate curriculum was not taught in English Application Deadline: February 1st Apply Now Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs Ph.D. Program Master's in Social Analysis and Research Student Placements 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now Department of Sociology Department of Sociology Brown University Box 1916 Maxcy Hall, 108 George Street Inner Campus – Lower Green Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2367 Fax: 401-863-3213 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top