Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Coronavirus COVID-19 right arrow down arrow COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics right arrow down arrow Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life right arrow down arrow Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine right arrow down arrow Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures right arrow down arrow Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Home » Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) » Campus Safety Measures » Research Set Navigation title in component COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Research To help protect the health and safety of our campus community, UC researchers are urged to continue to observe and enforce appropriate safety measures for those who are conducting research on campus or at a field site. Masks, social distancing, cleaning/disinfection and limiting the size of gatherings within your research spaces all remain important measures we can take to limit the spread of the virus. In addition, for those planning to continue research-related activities after the end of the fall semester, please keep in mind that UC’s facilities will be operating between semesters as in the past. Personnel will be allowed on campus for research. Buildings will remain open except during the Winter Season Days, when key card access will be required. See more on the Office of Research web site. The Office of Research has posted online materials to help researchers navigate both continuing remote work and a return to campus. These include FAQs and contact information. As a reminder, resources supporting remote research remain available, including the High Performance Computing resources. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top