Skip to main content APPLY GIVE MY NOVA WEBMAIL ELEARNING MENU MyNOVA VISIT SEARCH TOOLS CAMPAIGN APPLY GIVE WEBMAIL eLEARNING ABOUT ADMISSIONS ACADEMICS LIBRARY ON CAMPUS ATHLETICS ADVANCEMENT Office of the Provost / Research / Villanova Institute for Research and Scholarship Office of the Provost Office of the Provost COVID-19 Guidance About the Provost Schools & Colleges Interdisciplinary Institutes Research Associate Vice Provost for Research Villanova Institute for Research and Scholarship National Center for Faculty Development & Diversity LabArchives Internal Funding Opportunities Securing External Funding Sponsored Award Management Research Integrity and Compliance Research Facilities: HPC Cluster Research Administration Offices Teaching and Learning Academic Freedom and Freedom of Expression International Programs & Resources Academic Calendars Academic Catalogs Faculty and Student Resources Strategic Planning and Institutional Effectiveness Decision Support and Data Integrity VISIBLE: Villanova Initiative to Support Inclusiveness and Build Leaders Awards and Honors Villanova Institute for Research and Scholarship Strengthening research, scholarship, and creativity across campus The mission of the Villanova Institute for Research and Scholarship is to promote a vital research culture at Villanova through programs, resources, and applied research projects that empower faculty, postdoctoral fellows, and graduate students in the pursuit of their scholarly aspirations. Our approach is shaped by Villanova’s Augustinian Catholic ideals of Veritas, Unitas, Caritas (Truth, Unity, Love). We are committed to inclusive support for Villanova's scholars and their varied forms, methods and traditions of inquiry. We promote substantive, multidisciplinary engagement across the University’s colleges, departments and centers. How We Help Browse Programs and Resources Summer Programs and Deadlines Summer 2022 Faculty Writing Cooperative (register by May 16) Fall 2022 Proposal Development Seminar (application review starting June 30) Fall 2022 Faculty Writing Groups (applications due August 19) NEW! Fall 2022 Research Catalyst Grant (applications due September 15) Upcoming Events Learn More About Us Subscribe to our mailing list Collaborative Programs Contact Us About Villanova Villanova University was founded in 1842 by the Order of St. Augustine. To this day, Villanova’s Augustinian Catholic intellectual tradition is the cornerstone of an academic community in which students learn to think critically, act compassionately and succeed while serving others. There are more than 10,000 undergraduate, graduate and law students in the University’s six colleges. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Quick Links Accessibility at Villanova Diversity Edit Your Account Villanova A-Z Villanova Directory Work at Villanova Contact Us 800 E. Lancaster Avenue Villanova, PA 19085 (610) 519-4500 Contact Us Send Feedback Privacy & Security Copyright Higher Education Act Accessibility ©1990 - Tue May 31 14:09:38 CDT 2022 Villanova University. All rights reserved.