Skip to main content APPLY GIVE MY NOVA WEBMAIL ELEARNING MENU MyNOVA VISIT SEARCH TOOLS CAMPAIGN APPLY GIVE WEBMAIL eLEARNING ABOUT ADMISSIONS ACADEMICS LIBRARY ON CAMPUS ATHLETICS ADVANCEMENT Office for Mission and Ministry Office for Mission and Ministry Vice President Campus Ministry Faith & Learning Peace & Justice Education CRS Partnership Catholic Social Thought Hispanic Initiatives Heritage, History, & Tradition COVID Memorial Villanova Remembers 9/11 Synodality Office for Mission and Ministry Religious Diversity The Interfaith Advisory Council promotes a welcoming home for all faith traditions. More... Augustine Day by Day Light up each day with words of wisdom from Augustine. More... Tolle Lege New to Nova? Learn what these words mean as you begin your journey. More... +-May 17 Statement on Mass Shootings By Rev. Kevin M. DePrinzio, OSA, Vice President for Mission and Ministry; and Teresa A. Nance, PhD, Vice President of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, and Chief Diversity Officer This past weekend, our country was rocked by horrific mass shooting events around the country, including ones in Buffalo, New York; Orange County, California; and Houston, Texas. Hate. Not a euphemistic hate or a rhetorical hate, but a hate that ends lives. These days, as we hear about such tragedies, many of us want to turn away from the news. It becomes too difficult, too raw, too painful to endure. And yet, we cannot become numb to this kind of inhumanity. We cannot allow ourselves the excuse of difficulty or the luxury of indifference because our Catholic Augustinian identity demands that we recognize the sacredness of each life and affirm the humanity of all people. Take a moment today to recognize and affirm the humanity of those who lost their lives and those who were injured this past weekend. After you reflect, think about how you can make a difference. Hate demands a response. As Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. said, “Hate cannot drive out hate: Only love can do that.” Whatever we can, we must do. We are called to do no less. Explore these centers and areas within Mission and Ministry. Campus Ministry Office of the Vice President Faith & Learning Peace & Justice Education CRS Partnership Catholic Social Thought Office of the Vice President Staff Watch the Civitas Dei Lecture Watch the Mother Mary Lange Lecture Stay Informed Send Prayer Intentions Upcoming Events About Villanova Villanova University was founded in 1842 by the Order of St. Augustine. To this day, Villanova’s Augustinian Catholic intellectual tradition is the cornerstone of an academic community in which students learn to think critically, act compassionately and succeed while serving others. There are more than 10,000 undergraduate, graduate and law students in the University’s six colleges. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Quick Links Accessibility at Villanova Diversity Edit Your Account Villanova A-Z Villanova Directory Work at Villanova ____________________ Contact Us 800 E. Lancaster Avenue Villanova, PA 19085 (610) 519-4500 Contact Us Send Feedback Privacy & Security Copyright Higher Education Act Accessibility ©1990 - 2022 Villanova University. All rights reserved.