Skip to main content APPLY GIVE MY NOVA WEBMAIL ELEARNING MENU MyNOVA VISIT SEARCH TOOLS CAMPAIGN APPLY GIVE WEBMAIL eLEARNING ABOUT ADMISSIONS ACADEMICS LIBRARY ON CAMPUS ATHLETICS ADVANCEMENT College of Engineering / News and Events / College News / 2021 College News / Faculty & Research / Villanova Engineering Professor Pioneering Post-Quantum Cryptography College of Engineering College of Engineering About Us Departments Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Engineering Experience Faculty and Research Alumni News and Events College News Publications Annual College Events Black History Month Policies and Resources Villanova Engineering Professor Pioneering Post-Quantum Cryptography Dr. Jiafeng "Harvest" Xie Quantum physics revolves around atomic and subatomic particles that defy the laws of conventional physics. Quantum particles can exist in two places at once, move backward in time, and have other physics-breaking behaviors that quantum computers capitalize on. This new wave of computing was introduced in 1998 and has led to the development of quantum computers that, in the next 15–20 years, may be millions of times faster than classic computers. This incomprehensible processing speed poses a significant threat to future cybersecurity, especially when well-established quantum computers employing Shor’s algorithm can break nearly all the existing public-key cryptosystems. Therefore, researchers like Villanova’s Dr. Jiafeng "Harvest" Xie of the Electrical and Computer Engineering department are developing and implementing post-quantum cryptography (PQC) algorithms thought to be resistant to attacks by quantum computers. Dr. Xie has received grants from both the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the National Science Foundation (NSF) to research PQC from various angles: Efficient Hardware Implementation of Lattice-based Post-Quantum Cryptography $199,904 This project will investigate a hardware implementation framework of lattice-based PQC based on standard and ideal learning-with-errors (LWE) schemes. The outcomes of this project will facilitate the NIST’s PQC standardization process. Fast Algorithm Originated Fault Detection Scheme for Ring-LWE based Cryptographic Hardware $114,253 Ring-Learning-with-Errors (Ring-LWE) based cryptography is regarded as one of the most promising PQC schemes because of its security and ease of implementation. When cryptographic algorithms are implemented in hardware circuits, fault detection is an essential protective strategy to fight against both natural and maliciously injected faults in cryptographic circuits. This project aims to develop a novel fault detection scheme for the Ring-LWE based PQC. News Archives 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Events Campus Calendar About College of Engineering Villanova University College of Engineering is committed to an educational program that emphasizes technical excellence and a liberal arts education within the framework of the University's Augustinian and Catholic traditions. As a community of scholars, we seek to educate students to pursue both knowledge and wisdom, and to aspire to ethical and moral leadership within their chosen careers, their community, and the world. Stay connected with the College of Engineering! Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Quick Links Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Research Faculty and Staff Directory Contact Us Contact Us 800 E. Lancaster Avenue Villanova, PA 19085 (610) 519-4500 Contact Us Send Feedback Privacy & Security Copyright Higher Education Act Accessibility ©1990 - Tue May 31 14:09:45 CDT 2022 Villanova University. All rights reserved.