Skip to main content APPLY GIVE MY NOVA WEBMAIL ELEARNING MENU MyNOVA VISIT SEARCH TOOLS CAMPAIGN APPLY GIVE WEBMAIL eLEARNING ABOUT ADMISSIONS ACADEMICS LIBRARY ON CAMPUS ATHLETICS ADVANCEMENT Office of Auxiliary Services / Dining Services Dining Services Dining Services About Us Catering Employment Opportunities Feedback Hours Managers Only Meal Plans Menus News & Events Nutrition and Special Diets Sustainability Where To Eat Dining Services Holy Grounds at The Commons Our newest Holy Grounds location, Holy Grounds at The Commons, is now open! Click here to learn More... Follow us on Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook for all of the latest news, events, hours changes and special announcements. Read More... Villanova is serious about sustainability. We have many initiatives that are good environmental choices. Read More... Our VEG Nutrition Program is an easy way to be mindful about your eating habits. Following these 4 simple pillars will help you naturally increase your nutrition. Read More... ‹ › A Message From Villanova Dining Services As with many industries across the country, Villanova Dining Services is currently experiencing some challenges due to the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including both supply chain gaps and staffing shortages. Despite these challenges, our focus remains on upholding our core values - Safety and Sanitation, Friendly, Courteous Service, and Excellence. The safety and well-being of our associates, customers, and the Villanova community continues to be our top priority as we navigate the evolving landscape surrounding the pandemic. Supply chain issues faced by various food service manufacturers and distributors continues to necessitate adjustments to our menus, sometimes on short notice. Current staffing challenges may at times impact our operations, especially our made to order offerings. We are working to fill available positions as quickly as possible. Evolving safety measures will remain in place in our operations that prioritize the safety of both our customers and our associates. For those who may not feel comfortable eating in the dining halls, we will continue to offer the option for carryout in all dining locations. Hearing our community’s concerns is incredibly important to us and we take all feedback very seriously. We want to assure you that our food continues to be freshly prepared in our operations from 6am - 10pm daily. Additionally, we are working diligently to address your concerns, while also reacting to new and unexpected challenges as they arise. Despite these challenges, we continue to be committed to providing excellent service to the entire Villanova community. While we anticipate some of these concerns to be ongoing, we are doing everything we can to minimize their impact. We truly appreciate your patience and understanding during this time and thank you for your continued support. - Villanova Dining Services Upcoming Events Tweets by @villanovadining Dining on Demand Hours Of Operation Meal Plans Menus Nutritional Information Sustainability Where To Eat Villanova Dining Services 106 Dougherty Hall (610) 519-4170 Contact Us Follow Us! Facebook Twitter Pinterest Instagram About Villanova Villanova University was founded in 1842 by the Order of St. Augustine. To this day, Villanova’s Augustinian Catholic intellectual tradition is the cornerstone of an academic community in which students learn to think critically, act compassionately and succeed while serving others. There are more than 10,000 undergraduate, graduate and law students in the University’s six colleges. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Quick Links Accessibility at Villanova Diversity Edit Your Account Villanova A-Z Villanova Directory Work at Villanova Contact Us 800 E. Lancaster Avenue Villanova, PA 19085 (610) 519-4500 Contact Us Send Feedback Privacy & Security Copyright Higher Education Act Accessibility ©1990 - Tue May 31 14:09:39 CDT 2022 Villanova University. All rights reserved.