Skip to main content APPLY GIVE MY NOVA WEBMAIL ELEARNING MENU MyNOVA VISIT SEARCH TOOLS CAMPAIGN APPLY GIVE WEBMAIL eLEARNING ABOUT ADMISSIONS ACADEMICS LIBRARY ON CAMPUS ATHLETICS ADVANCEMENT Office of the Provost Office of the Provost COVID-19 Guidance About the Provost Schools & Colleges Interdisciplinary Institutes Research Research Administration Offices Teaching and Learning Academic Freedom and Freedom of Expression International Programs & Resources Academic Calendars Academic Catalogs Faculty and Student Resources Strategic Planning and Institutional Effectiveness Decision Support and Data Integrity VISIBLE: Villanova Initiative to Support Inclusiveness and Build Leaders Awards and Honors Office of the Provost The Provost performs as the Chief Academic Officer and the second ranking officer of the University, serving as leader of the institution in the absence of the President. All academic areas of the University are under the direction of the University Provost. The Provost fosters creative and innovative approaches to enhance Villanova’s educational offerings, research productivity and intellectual climate. As the University’s Chief Academic Officer, the Provost oversees the academic enterprise. To that end, the Provost plays a major role in the development of the University’s vision and strategy, ensuring that Villanova’s greatest priority is academic excellence and the holistic education of its more than 10,000 undergraduate and graduate students. Colleges and Schools The colleges and schools offering degrees and programs are: College of Liberal Arts and Sciences College of Engineering Villanova University School of Business Villanova University M. Louise Fitzpatrick College of Nursing Villanova University Charles Widger School of Law College of Professional Studies Reporting Units The following also report to the University Provost: Academic Support for Athletics Career Center Center for Access, Success, and Achievement Center for Research and Fellowships Decision Support and Data Integrity Education Abroad Enrollment Management Falvey Memorial Library Honors Program Innovation, Creativity, and Entrepreneurship Institute Institute for Women's Leadership Learning Support Services Mathematics Learning Resource Center Strategic Planning and Institutional Effectiveness Research Administration Tutoring Services Villanova Institute for Research & Scholarship Villanova Institute for Teaching and Learning Villanova Writing Center Office of the Provost Initiatives Awards and Honors Each year several awards and honors are given to faculty members who have distinguished themselves by their contributions to the University. Institutional Accreditation Information Villanova University is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education, an institutional accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. Office of the Provost Tolentine Hall, Room 103 800 Lancaster Avenue Villanova, PA 19085 Phone: 610.519.4520 Fax: 610.519.6200 Meet Our Staff Student FAQs About Villanova Villanova University was founded in 1842 by the Order of St. Augustine. To this day, Villanova’s Augustinian Catholic intellectual tradition is the cornerstone of an academic community in which students learn to think critically, act compassionately and succeed while serving others. There are more than 10,000 undergraduate, graduate and law students in the University’s six colleges. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Quick Links Accessibility at Villanova Diversity Edit Your Account Villanova A-Z Villanova Directory Work at Villanova Contact Us 800 E. Lancaster Avenue Villanova, PA 19085 (610) 519-4500 Contact Us Send Feedback Privacy & Security Copyright Higher Education Act Accessibility ©1990 - Tue May 31 14:09:35 CDT 2022 Villanova University. All rights reserved.