Skip to main content Campaign Villanova A-Z | VU People Directory | eLearning | MyNova | Edit your Account | Webmail Campaign A-Z Index Directory eLearning MyNova login Account Webmail APPLY GIVE WEBMAIL eLEARNING Academics Academic Calendar Degrees Centers of Excellence Areas of Study Externships Moot Court Our Faculty Learning Outcomes Graduate Tax Legal Writing Trial Advocacy Journals Admissions About Villanova Law Class Profile Applying Visit Us Financial Aid Contact Us Admitted Students Housing ABA Required Disclosures Careers Resources for Students Recruitment Programs Resources for Employers Contact Us Employment Data Current Students Announcements Registrar Technology Services Policies and Handbooks Student Organizations Pro Bono Opportunities Student Photo Directory NOVASIS Student Affairs Academic Success Bar Preparation Alumni Alumni Events Reunions Alumni Association Benefits and Services Fund for Villanova Law President's Club Ways to Give Planned Giving Clinics Clinical Experience Planning for a Clinic Faculty & Staff Course Registration Library Law Databases Resources for Students Alumni & Visitor Information Library Maps Research Guides Resources for Faculty Digital Repository Staff Directory law / Library Library Library Law Databases Student Resources Faculty Services Alumni & Visitor Information Library Maps Staff Directory Special Collections What's New in the Library? Prepare to Practice Training Session (Monday, May 9 at 11:00am via Zoom) The Law Library will be hosting a training session focused on lesser-known research resources that you may utilize over the summer. The session will review topics including: finding jury instructions, verdicts, forms, dockets, public records, and other tools often used outside of the academic experience. This training session will be whether you are going out to your first summer position or starting your permanent job. A recording of the training will be available to view after the session. NEW! Summer Resources Guide for Current Students and New Grads Curious what databases you have access to over the summer? Want to get some background information on your employer before your first day at your summer job? Working as an extern or an RA? Want to pick up some new technology or legal skills this summer? Wondering what resources you still have access to as a new grad? All this and more can be found on our Summer Resources guide. Rivalry of Resources Tournament Update: Congratulations to Lexis, our champion database and to Josh Harris as the winner of the grand prize, a private room party during the study period. Thanks to everyone who played! You can check out the brackets and read more about the databases featured in the contest here. Featured Resource: Aspen Learning Library (Formerly: Wolters Kluwer Online Study Aids Library) The Aspen Learning Library is available to Villanova Law school students, faculty, and staff and requires your VU login for access. The Study Aids library provides full-text, online ebook access to Wolters Kluwer materials. Create a personal account once on the site to make notes, bookmark sections, highlight text etc. The Aspen Learning Library offers many different study aids including: Casenote Legal Briefs, Emanuel CrunchTime and Law Outlines, Examples & Explanations, Glannon Guides, the Inside Series and many more. For help getting started, see the user guides on the Study Aids libguide. To download/read offline content, you must download the Aspen Learning Library app using these instructions. Announcements for Late Spring/Early Summer 2022: During exam periods, use of the law library is limited to law students and faculty. Please show Villanova ID to enter. You also need your Wildcard to swipe into the law school building and coffee bar areas on evenings and weekends. We've got earplugs at the Circulation Desk Carrels and tables are first come, first served but you can still reserve a study room for your group. Study rooms in the library and in the classroom wing are to be used by groups of 2 or more students for a maximum of 2 hours per day. Items on Reserve may be checked out for 4 hours at a time and must be used within the library only. Exam Resources Our Study Aids and supplements can be found on the first floor by the Reference Desk. Browse the shelves or ask at the Circulation desk for newer editions. Study Aids, except for those on Study Reserve, can also be requested using the Book Concierge Service. Check out our Study Aids and Exam prep guide which includes pages devoted to 1L and required/recommended upper level classes, and links to the Aspen Learning Library (formerly Wolters Kluwer Online Study AId Library), CALI interactive tutorials (contact Lori Corso if you don't have a CALI account) and other study tips. Take an old exam as a practice test Students on campus may continue to browse the shelves and pick out your own books for checkout or use the Law Library Book Concierge Service. Requested items will be checked out to you and placed in our 24/7 self-service pickup area on the first floor of the law library. QR codes/links to the request form are posted throughout the library too. NOTE: items in the Reserve and Reserve Study collections may not be requested using the Concierge Service-ask for them at the Circulation Desk. Don't forget about our Procertas subscription--up your tech game and expand your resume by completing training modules for specific legal tasks in Microsoft Word, Excel, Powerpoint and Adobe/PDFs (you even earn badges for LinkedIn!) -- Procertas now includes Bluebooking practice! |Bloomberg Law| |HeinOnline| |Lexis+| |Westlaw| Search for Library Resources Research Guides Special Collections Law Databases Digital Repository Interlibrary Loan Request a Book Reserve a Study Space Falvey Library +-Resource Spotlight: New HeinOnline Collections Civil Rights and Social Justice Collection: Includes publications from the Commission on Civil Rights, legislative histories on landmark legislation, briefs from relevant U.S. Supreme Court cases, and other documents covering civil rights in the United States. COVID-19: Pandemics Past and Present: This database includes information on past pandemics as well as the COVID-19 crisis. It includes federal government reports, hearings, and more. Content that is COVID-19 specific is organized into specific areas of focus: Economic Impact, Global Impact, Health Care Impact, and Societal Impact, with a separate subcollection exclusive to Past Pandemics. Executive Privilege: This database includes primary materials from all three branches of government as well as secondary sources exploring the use of executive privilege in the past through today. History of Supreme Court Nominations: This collection features the full text of the Supreme Court of the U.S. Hearings and Reports on Successful and Unsuccessful Nominations of Supreme Court Justices by the Senate Judiciary Committee. Use the Browse by Justice option to link directly to relevant content, articles, and bibliography as applicable to each justice. UNC Press Law Publications: Provides access to more than 400 titles from this publisher, browseable by title, subject, date or author. Titles offer historical and current coverage of a range of social justice issues including racial injustice, civil rights and immigration as well as biographies of influential laweyrs, judges and social reformers, Villanova University Charles Widger School of Law 299 North Spring Mill Road Villanova, PA 19085 (610) 519-7000 Villanova University Charles Widger School of Law is approved by the Council of the Section of Legal Education and Admissions to the Bar of the American Bar Association: American Bar Association Office of the Managing Director 321 North Clark Street, Chicago, IL 60654 (312) 988-6738 Accessibility at Villanova Deans & Faculty Profiles Contact VLS ● Events ● Legal Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Contact Us 800 E. Lancaster Avenue Villanova, PA 19085 (610) 519-4500 Contact Us Send Feedback Privacy & Security Copyright Higher Education Act Accessibility ©1990 - Tue May 31 14:09:39 CDT 2022 Villanova University. All rights reserved.