Skip to main content APPLY GIVE MY NOVA WEBMAIL ELEARNING MENU MyNOVA VISIT SEARCH TOOLS CAMPAIGN APPLY GIVE WEBMAIL eLEARNING ABOUT ADMISSIONS ACADEMICS LIBRARY ON CAMPUS ATHLETICS ADVANCEMENT Office of the Provost / Career Center Career Center Career Center About Us Meet Our Team For Undergraduate Students For Graduate Students For College of Professional Studies Students For Employers For Alumni For Parents For Faculty Upcoming Events & Career Fairs Post-Graduation Outcomes Our Partners Give to the Career Center The Villanova University Career Center About Our Office Our mission is to provide high quality, comprehensive career services, empowering members of the Villanova University community to choose and attain personally rewarding careers. We serve that mission in a variety of ways. More... Upcoming Events For Students Schedule a Career Counseling Appointment Job & Internship Search - Handshake Reserve an Interview Room Resumes, Cover Letters & Additional Correspondence Campus Interviewing Orientation Interview Prep Career Exploration Graduate School Application Process For Employers Express Recruiting Interest Form 2021-2022 Sponsorship Opportunities Post a Job Recruiting Policies Office Information Hours of Operation: 9AM-5PM Drop-In Hours: 12-3PM Monday-Thursday, Garey Hall Suite 117 | Virtual via Zoom on Fridays during the Fall and Spring when classes are in session Phone: 610-519-4060 Fax: 610-519-7828 Office Location: Garey Hall Suite 117 Graduate Outcomes Surveys Resilience Resume Project About the Villanova University Career Center Our mission is to provide high quality, comprehensive career services, empowering members of the Villanova University community to choose and attain personally rewarding careers. We serve that mission in a variety of ways: Individualized Career Planning Members of the Career Center team regularly meet with undergraduate students, graduate students and alumni to educate them about career decision-making, provide them with the tools to succeed and connect them with opportunities and people through our resources and events. Foundational to this work is our focus on helping Villanovans align their values with the work and organizations they seek. We encourage students and alumni to evaluate employers and employment by asking questions and thinking critically about what they see, hear and observe in action to ensure the opportunity aligns with their goals. Partnership with Colleges Within the colleges of the university, professional development teams and programs exist to integrate career services, education and experiences into the curriculum. The Career Center is a contributing partner to the creation, delivery and evaluation of these programs to ensure all students are provided with equitable access to career and professional development resources. Events, Programs & Employer Connections Throughout the year, the Career Center manages hundreds of events and programs in collaboration with employers, faculty, staff and alumni of the university, including on-campus interviews, career fairs, in-class career education sessions and academic immersion programs. Along with our career events, employers post thousands of job and internship opportunities in our career services management platform, Handshake. Who We Serve The Career Center’s services are available to all degree-seeking students of the university and all undergraduate and graduate alumni. Students in the Charles Widger School of Law should primarily seek the services of the Office of Career Strategy & Advancement. Career Center Quick Links Handshake Schedule a Counseling Appointment Post a Job - #HireNova Meet Our Team Career Center Social Media Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Icons on the Career Center website are by Icons8. Our Diversity Statement The Villanova University Career Center is committed to the university’s advancement of diversity, equity and inclusion and recognizes that these principles are integral to our work. It is necessary for Villanova students and alumni to develop intercultural understanding and inclusive communication practices in order to be a positive influence in the global workplace. We seek to create a welcoming environment in all that we do, ensuring that all identities, perspectives and experiences are heard, respected and valued in conversations about career and professional development. We develop programs and resources to support underrepresented and minoritized students and alumni in achieving personally rewarding careers. We will continue to listen, learn and serve as advocates for all members of the Villanova community as we support individuals on their personal and professional journeys. Our Core Values Inclusivity We commit to ensuring that all identities, perspectives and experiences are heard, respected and valued. Holistic Approach We recognize the unique needs of each person, acknowledge the multitude of factors that influence decision-making and maintain an environment of trust, honesty and transparency. Continuous Learning We embrace a growth mindset and stay open to all opportunities to learn, innovate and educate. Connectivity We make meaningful connections between opportunities, people, resources and ideas. Celebration We take time to encourage each other and celebrate success in all its forms. Contact Us 800 E. Lancaster Avenue Villanova, PA 19085 (610) 519-4500 Contact Us Send Feedback Privacy & Security Copyright Higher Education Act Accessibility ©1990 - Tue May 31 14:09:46 CDT 2022 Villanova University. All rights reserved.