Skip to main content APPLY GIVE MY NOVA WEBMAIL ELEARNING MENU MyNOVA VISIT SEARCH TOOLS CAMPAIGN APPLY GIVE WEBMAIL eLEARNING ABOUT ADMISSIONS ACADEMICS LIBRARY ON CAMPUS ATHLETICS ADVANCEMENT Media Room Media Room Media Expert Center Media Relations Staff Directory Villanova Media Highlights Villanova President Press Releases Features Media Photos University Communication and Marketing Villanova Magazine Villanova Media Experts on Ukraine-Russia Conflict Featured News The Force of Nature Read the digital edition of the Spring 2022 issue of Villanova Magazine online. The cover story, “The Force of Nature,” features Alyssa Stark, PhD, Department of Biology, who is steering fascinating research on adhesion in geckos, ants and sea urchins. Also, in this issue, an insider’s tour of The Commons and a look at Villanova University’s vast and impressive art collection. Read More MORE NOVA NEWS Villanova University’s Center for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Stewardship Exhibitor in 2022 Philadelphia Flower Show Villanova University's Center for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Stewardship (CBEST) will have an exhibit on display at the 2022 Philadelphia Flower Show from June 11-19 at FDR Park. The name of the exhibit is called "Blooming Biodiversity." Villanova Professor Receives Fulbright, NSF Grant for Humanitarian Engineering Pritpal Singh, PhD, professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, has made a career of improving the lives of others through humanitarian engineering. Now, thanks to two major awards, he will expand these efforts in the U.S. and abroad. Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, Villanova Biologist Publish Long-term Study on Sea Level’s Impact on Wetland Plants Rising sea levels are endangering the future of wetlands around the world. Scientists have long believed rising CO2 levels could stimulate extra plant growth at a rate that could outpace rising seas. A decades-long study published in ScienceAdvances May 18 by the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center (SERC) and Adam Langley, PhD, associate professor of Biology in Villanova University’s College of Liberal Arts and Sciences (CLAS), shows that this benefit is diminishing. 19 Villanovans Win Prestigious Fulbright U.S. Student Grants for 2022-23 The U.S. Department of State and the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board has announced the Fulbright U.S. Student Program awards for 2022-23, with 19 Villanova University students and alumni winning the prestigious awards. In addition to the 19 award recipients, 5 other Villanovans were selected as alternates and 25 earned recognition as semi-finalists. Villanova Theatre Professor James Ijames receives the 2022 Pulitzer Prize in Drama James Ijames, associate professor of Theatre in Villanova University’s College of Liberal Arts and Sciences is the 2022 Pulitzer Prize Winner in Drama. The Pulitzer Prize for Drama is given to a distinguished play by an American author, preferably original in its source and dealing with American life. A playwright, educator, director and performer, Ijames was awarded the Pulitzer for his play, Fat Ham, a “loose” according to the playwright—adaptation of Shakespeare’s Hamlet. Next » Features Villanova A Cappella Group, Supernovas, Cap Off Historic Year with Memorable Performance Villanova a cappella group, Supernovas, ended the 2021-22 academic year on a high note as a top 10 finisher at the International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella (ICCA). VILLANOVA IN THE MEDIA Philly playwright James Ijames wins the Pulitzer Prize (WHYY Radio) Jay Wright coaches class of ‘22 as Villanova commencement speaker (FOX29 Philadelphia) Villanova University scientist Joey Neilsen helps create cosmic postcard of black hole (6ABC Philadelphia) How do grocery stores make money with low profit margins? (Marketplace) Why crypto wants $500 million worth of Twitter (Politico) About Villanova Villanova University was founded in 1842 by the Order of St. Augustine. To this day, Villanova’s Augustinian Catholic intellectual tradition is the cornerstone of an academic community in which students learn to think critically, act compassionately and succeed while serving others. There are more than 10,000 undergraduate, graduate and law students in the University’s six colleges. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Quick Links Accessibility at Villanova Diversity Edit Your Account Villanova A-Z Villanova Directory Work at Villanova Contact Us 800 E. Lancaster Avenue Villanova, PA 19085 (610) 519-4500 Contact Us Send Feedback Privacy & Security Copyright Higher Education Act Accessibility ©1990 - Tue May 31 14:09:47 CDT 2022 Villanova University. All rights reserved.