Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU The Rowland Institute at Harvard 100 Edwin H. Land Blvd. Cambridge, MA 02142 Home Director's page Scientific Advisory Committee Directory Contact Directions to Rowland About Rowland Fellowship Research at Rowland About the Institute Institute History Edwin H. Land Employment Calendar Rowland Fellowships The Rowland Fellows About the Fellowship Program How to Apply RF Program FAQ People Current members Rowland Fellows Former Rowland Fellows Rowland Senior Fellows Rowland Alumni News Resources Forms & Policies Machine and Model Shop Databases EE Laboratory Computation and IT Our Facility Library Publications Systems and Behavioral Neurosciences RF Jennifer Li Host - Microbe and Toxicity RF Robert Brucker Physics and Ecology of Motility Strategies RF Katja Taute Microscope Design and Optogenetics RF Drew Robson Rowland Fellows 10th Anniversary '3D-AFM' for Heterogenous Materials RF Ye Tao Excitonic Materials & Devices RF Dan Congreve Rowland Fellows 2016 Rowland Institute Visiting Distinguished Scholar April 2018 Prof. Shana Kelley 2019 Rowland Fellows The Rowland Fellowship Program was established to fund young scholars who will perform ground-breaking research program in their chosen field. Rowland Fellows are selected from all areas of experimental science and engineering. The Fellowship funds independent research for up to five years. FOR THE LATEST HARVARD UPDATES ON THE CORONA VIRUS CLICK HERE THE APPLICATION PERIOD FOR THE 2022 ROWLAND FELLOWSHIP IS NOW CLOSED Search Employment: Postdoctoral Opportunities Reece Lab - Postdoctoral candidate Feldmann Lab - Postdoctoral candidate Application information here. For summer undergraduate research opportunities, contact our Rowland Fellows. Click here to see their lab and research descriptions. Harvard Diversity and Inclusion information: Faculty of Arts and Sciences Diversity and Inclusion Harvard Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Harvard College Office of Diversity Education & Support For access to event photographs. click here. (Internal use only) Recent Publications Eukaryotic catecholamine hormones influence the chemotactic control of Vibrio campbellii by binding to the coupling protein CheW Excitation-Wavelength-Dependent Photophysics of d8 d8 Di-isocyanide Complexes A Cobalt Phosphine Complex in Five Oxidation States Mechanism of Nickel-Iron Water Oxidation Electrocatalysts Vibrio cholerae motility in aquatic and mucus-mimicking environments A multiscale 3D chemotaxis assay reveals bacterial navigation mechanismsMore Rowland RF and Alumni News Rowland Alumni News RF Alum Dan Congreve feature in the Harvard Gazette Former Rowland Fellow Dan Congreve is featured in an article in the Harvard Gazette. The article highlights the Congreve Lab's work on 3D printing while at the Rowland Institute. To read the full article in the Harvard Gazette, click... Read more about Rowland Alumni News Latest News Director Andrew Murray presentation to the Westmister School, London March 15, 2022 On March 15, 2022 Professor Andrew Murray, Director of the Rowland Institute at Harvard, gave a virtual presentation “Scientific Evolution: life, teaching, and research” to the Westminster School in London as a part of their Horizons program. This program attempts to give... Read more about Director Andrew Murray presentation to the Westmister School, London In Memory of Howard Berg 1934 - 2021 January 3, 2022 Howard Berg, who was a Senior Fellow at the Rowland and a faculty member in Molecular and Cellular Biology at Harvard University passed away on December 30, 2021. Howard was appointed as a Senior Fellow by Dr. Edwin Land, the founder of the Rowland Institute, based on their shared interest in using physics as a lens to understand how organisms perceive their surroundings. In Dr. Land’s case, the organisms were humans and the perception was sight; for Howard, the organisms were bacteria and the perception was smell, or more precisely,... Read more about In Memory of Howard Berg 1934 - 2021 Educational Outreach with Westminster School, London February 25, 2021 The Westminster School is hosting a series of talks by students and faculty at US universities to give Westminster students a sense of what is going on at university campuses in terms of the educational and research opportunities. Rowland Fellows are participating in this series and... Read more about Educational Outreach with Westminster School, London More Rowland Institute at Harvard Privacy Policy Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement