About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom Directory The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise » Courses » Executive Education » Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals list-style-none About Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Social Ventures Research Connections Initiatives Newsroom APPLY DOWNLOAD BROCHURE CONTACT US Senior-level leaders in the nonprofit sector can sometimes feel isolated, unsure exactly how to create an effective peer network, and, perhaps most importantly, how to receive honest feedback on their vision and leadership. The Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals provides an answer. A unique and transformative experience, the Senior Leaders Program is designed to help nonprofit leaders successfully develop their organization’s direction, policies, and programs — all while building an invaluable network of other nonprofit leaders. Date: Jan 10–Apr 29, 2022* $11,250 (Blended) Format: Four week modules over four months from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. ET View the sample agenda for the blended modular format → Module Dates: Module 1: January 10–14, 2022 Module 2: February 14–18, 2022 Module 3: March 14–18, 2022 Module 4: April 25–29, 2022 Read the latest Covid-related protocols at Columbia Business School → Admission Deadline: Friday, October 15, 2021 Please have an updated resume, a personal statement as to why you would like to attend this program at this time in your career, and your organization’s 990 form ready to upload to the application. Additional Info: Learn more about alumni benefits → Tuition assistance may be available. *2022 program dates are subject to change. Overview Impact Program Structure Participant Profile & Testimonials Faculty FAQ Partners Questions? Contact Gwen Shufro ’06, director, at [email protected]. "This was the best educational experience I've had, bar none." – Program Participant Riel Peerblooms, Executive Director at Trail Blazer Camps This highly interactive 20-day program equips senior nonprofit professionals with strategic management and leadership skills. It is an opportunity for leaders who have mission-wide responsibility — people who are influencing the conversation about the organization’s future — to step back, see the big picture, and develop an actionable plan. They are afforded time to think strategically about how to deliver on their organization’s mission, both now and in the future. Through intensive exercises, faculty interaction, executive coaching, and collaboration with a diverse group of senior-level peers, the program creates a rich learning experience like no other for nonprofit executives and senior leaders. Participants learn to integrate theory and practice, giving them tools that are immediately applicable at their organizations. The modular format — four one-week modules over four months — allows for real-time testing of ideas: roll them out over time, track progress, redefine the challenge, and discover the best solution. At the Senior Leaders Program, our participants are at the very center of the learning experience. They will start the program with the organizational impact plan. During this process, participants select, clarify, and articulate an organizational challenge they are currently facing and learn how to apply concepts from the program to address it. Hear from the program director on how the organizational impact plan will help participants advance. Next, they will receive a 360-degree leadership survey during which their peers, direct reports, and managers assess the participant's leadership style. This process enables participants to develop a rich picture of how they are seen, and provides them with the opportunity to enhance their managerial effectiveness. Participants will receive executive coaching during the program to develop a plan that is responsive to their 360-degree feedback. Finally, participants formulate their leadership credo, a unique opportunity to identify and hone their personal beliefs about leadership and how it relates to their organization’s mission and future. Throughout the program, participants also learn from their executive cohort, benefitting from an impressive peer group of seasoned professionals who are able to provide different vantage points on their leadership challenges — all while building an invaluable network of nonprofit leaders. Certification Participants who complete the Senior Leaders Program receive a certificate that grants them select Columbia Business School alumni benefits, including: A 25 percent tuition benefit for themselves and up to four colleagues each year for programs lasting up to seven days Global Columbia Business School alumni networking opportunities Access to Columbia Business School Alumni Career Services resources, including access to unique career content, a job board, an online networking platform, the alumni directory, and more. Download the full list of resources. A lifetime Columbia Business School forwarding email address Eligibility to join a Columbia Business School alumni club. View the alumni clubs list. The program takes place in a modular format, with four one-week modules over the course of four months. The modular format allows for real-time testing of learnings and ideas. With the help of faculty and coaches, participants will be able to track their progress, redefine their challenges, and discover the best solutions for their organization. Hear more about the modular program design from the program director: For a complete program schedule for this year's virtual format, please download the agenda. The Senior Leaders Program is designed for upper- and senior-level nonprofit professionals who are responsible for directing their organizations' mission, direction, and policies. Typically, participants include executive directors, deputy and regional directors, and other senior administrators. Hear From Past Participants: Riel Peerblooms Video of Riel Peerblooms Riel Peerblooms Executive Director at Trail Blazer Camps Pamela Inbasekaran Video of Pamela Inbasekaran Pamela Inbasekaran Chief Operating Officer at Relay Graduate School of Education Jacquel Clemons Video of Jacquel Clemons Jacquel Clemons Chief Operating Officer at Kings Against Violence Initiative Stephen Grimaldi Video of Stephen Grimaldi Stephen Grimaldi Executive Director of New York Common Pantry Riel Peerblooms Riel Peerblooms Pamela Inbasekaran Pamela Inbasekaran Jacquel Clemons Jacquel Clemons Stephen Grimaldi Stephen Grimaldi Typical Participant Mix Participants of the program have come from the following organizations: Bottom Line Brooklyn Navy Yard Center for Employment Opportunities Children's Aid Society City Harvest DREAM East Side House Goddard Riverside Community Center Good Shepherd Services Graham Windham Lenox Hill Neighborhood House New Visions for Public School Sunnyside Community Services Uncommon Schools Year Up Youth Represent Raymond Horton, Faculty Director Frank R. Lautenberg Professor of Ethics and Corporate Governance Bernstein Faculty Leader of the Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Center for Leadership and Ethics Faculty Director of the Programs in Social Enterprise A lawyer and political scientist, Raymond Horton served as executive director of the Temporary Commission on City Finances during the New York City fiscal crisis for two years while on leave from Columbia Business School. He later served as director of research and president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a public advocate of responsible governance and financial management in New York City and New York State, for 15 years. Horton has also served on a number of private and nonprofit boards, including most recently the Municipal Advantage Fund, Robert Sterling Clark Foundation, and Community Resource Exchange. The founder and long-time director of Columbia Business School?s Social Enterprise Program, Horton serves as faculty director of Programs in Social Enterprise in Executive Education. In addition to nonprofit management, he also teaches in the field of modern political economy. His writings include numerous books, articles, and reports about state and local finance and politics. The Program's Faculty Bench Hear from the program director about the faculty's interest in the nonprofit sector and how faculty and participants learn from each other during the program: Along with Professor Horton, additional Columbia Business School and Columbia University faculty contribute to and teach in the program, including: Daniel Ames Ting Tsung and Wei Fong Chao Professor of Business Modupe Akinola Associate Professor of Management; Faculty Director of the Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Center for Leadership and Ethics Joann Baney Adjunct Associate Professor of International and Public Affairs Adam Galinsky Paul Calello Professor of Leadership and Ethics Paul Ingram Kravis Professor of Business Damon Phillips Lambert Family Professor of Social Enterprise William Pietersen Professor of the Practice of Management Valerie Purdie Greenaway Associate Professor in the Department of Psychology at Columbia University Medini Singh Senior Lecturer in Discipline in Business Dan Wang David W. Zalaznick Associate Professor of Business Chris Washburne Professor of Music, Ethnomusicology 1. What is the timing of the admission process? Applications are reviewed the week following the application due date. Admission and scholarship decisions will be made to curate this year’s cohort, and decision notifications will be made to all participants via email. 2. Where does the program take place? Weeks 1, 3 and 4 will occur on the Columbia University campus in New York City. Week 2 will be a live online format. Participants will not need to travel to Columbia for week 2 and need to be able to engage in sessions via the Zoom platform. 3. What is the program schedule? The program runs one week per month across four months. The program schedule is Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. ET when on-campus and 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. during our Week 2's virtual format. In case of national, city or university restrictions due to the current pandemic, four additional dates have been scheduled should we need to transition to a fully virtual program. Please save these dates on your calendars. 4. Is financial assistance available? As a part of our commitment to the nonprofit sector, the Programs in Social Enterprise at Columbia Business School Executive Education offer three types of tuition assistance. Though tuition assistance is not guaranteed, we do our best to provide financial support whenever possible. Applicants can only receive one form of tuition assistance; they cannot be combined. Upon acceptance to the program, applicants will be notified of the amount of tuition assistance they are being awarded. In addition to the full criteria listed on the 2022 tuition assistance guidelines download, please note the following: Applicants must be full-time employees of a nonprofit or social enterprise Applicants must apply and be accepted into the program before tuition assistance is determined Scholarships are allocated on a sliding scale, based on the need of the organization Full scholarships are not available Applicants can only receive one form of tuition assistance; they cannot be combined Please review the complete 2022 tuition assistance guidelines before requesting tuition assistance. 5. Who typically attends the program? The program is designed for senior nonprofit leaders responsible for the mission and strategy of their organization. 6. How many people attend the program? The program typically has between 40 and 50 participants. 7. Do you accept non-US applicants? We welcome applicants from around the world. Applicants should be sufficiently proficient in English both verbally and in writing at a graduate-school level. 8. Do I receive a certificate at the end of the program? Everyone who successfully completes the program receives the Certificate in Business Excellence, granting select Columbia Business School alumni benefits. Learn more about the benefits here. 9. Where can I find more information? Learn more about the program and get answers to commonly asked questions in this recorded information session, which includes insights on how we've translated the in-person program to a virtual format for 2021. 10. I still have questions. How can I find help? Contact Gwen Shufro ’06, at [email protected]. We are grateful for the support of our foundation partners: Booth Ferris Foundation Centerbridge Foundation Clark Foundation Columbia Community Service Miami Foundation Tiger Foundation Tote Board Robin Hood Foundation Pinkerton Foundation New York Nonprofit Excellence Awards Real Time Grantmaking Award Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top