Academic Essentials Courses Course Selection Degree Requirements Dual Degrees New Elective Specialization: Global Business Track Policies Academic Standards Class of 2014 Class of 2015 GPA Calculator Attendance Requirements Auditing Awards and Dean's List Academic/Practical Training Exemption Exams Grade Appeals Honor Code Disciplinary Process Incompletes Interrupting Your Studies Recordings Withdrawal Academic Support Academic Advising Starfish for Student Success Schedule an Academic Advising Session Tutoring Schedule a Tutoring Session Becoming a Tutor Tutor Resources Faculty Access & EFAP Elective Faculty Access Program Teaching Assistants Records & Registration Course Match Clearing Prices Current Semester Forms Elective Selection Guidance Exams Future Planning Cross-Registration Courses Cross-Listed with the Law School Degree Audit Diplomas Educational Records Holds Name Changes Student Life Clubs Mailing Lists Alumni Relations Graduation Posting on the Lobby Screens Student Leader Resources Club/Cluster Resources Student Leadership On-Boarding & Training Club & Cluster Governance Finance Policies & Procedures Approved Vendors Event Planning CBS Alcohol Policy Common Contacts Conference Resources New Conference Approval Process Speaker Resources Sponsorship Resources New Club Process Student Travel Student Trek Information Career Management Center Financial Aid The Office of Student Affairs Student Handbook Returning to Campus Academic Calendar Columbia Business School MBA Students Academic Essentials Courses Course Selection Degree Requirements Dual Degrees New Elective Specialization: Global Business Track Policies Academic Standards Class of 2014 Class of 2015 GPA Calculator Attendance Requirements Auditing Awards and Dean's List Academic/Practical Training Exemption Exams Grade Appeals Honor Code Disciplinary Process Incompletes Interrupting Your Studies Recordings Withdrawal Academic Support Academic Advising Starfish for Student Success Schedule an Academic Advising Session Tutoring Schedule a Tutoring Session Becoming a Tutor Tutor Resources Faculty Access & EFAP Elective Faculty Access Program Teaching Assistants Records & Registration Course Match Clearing Prices Current Semester Forms Elective Selection Guidance Exams Future Planning Cross-Registration Courses Cross-Listed with the Law School Degree Audit Diplomas Educational Records Holds Name Changes Student Life Clubs Mailing Lists Alumni Relations Graduation Posting on the Lobby Screens Student Leader Resources Club/Cluster Resources Student Leadership On-Boarding & Training Club & Cluster Governance Finance Policies & Procedures Approved Vendors Event Planning CBS Alcohol Policy Common Contacts Conference Resources New Conference Approval Process Speaker Resources Sponsorship Resources New Club Process Student Travel Student Trek Information Career Management Center Financial Aid The Office of Student Affairs Student Handbook Returning to Campus Academic Calendar Columbia Business School MBA Students » Academic Essentials » Policies » Awards and Dean's List Awards and Dean's List Main menu Academic Essentials Courses Policies Academic Standards Attendance Requirements Auditing Awards and Dean's List Academic/Practical Training Exemption Exams Grade Appeals Honor Code Disciplinary Process Incompletes Interrupting Your Studies Recordings Withdrawal Academic Support Records & Registration Student Life Career Management Center Financial Aid The Office of Student Affairs Student Handbook Returning to Campus University Awards | Dean's List | Dean's Graduation Honors Beta Gamma Sigma Alumni Award Presented every year to a graduating student. The recipient is selected on the basis of outstanding character, scholastic achievement, participation in School affairs and potential for civic, business, and professional leadership. Columbia Business School Service Award Presented once a year in recognition of a graduating student’s outstanding contributions to the School community, as defined by notable participation in School activities. Eli Ginzberg Memorial Prize Presented annually to a graduating student who has done outstanding work in the field of Economics or Human Resources. William J. Heffernan Memorial Award for Service Given yearly to graduating students who, working “behind the scenes,” have made outstanding contributions to the School’s academic standards, operations and integrity. The award honors the late dean for administration, William Heffernan, who served at the School from 1961 to 1986. MBA Student Speaker Selected by fellow graduates to represent the graduating class at the Recognition Ceremony. The Student Speaker is chosen on the basis of contributions to the School, intellectual strength and speaking ability. Benjamin Michaelson Scholarship Prize Awarded annually to a student who has completed the first year of study and exhibits strong academic achievement as well as strong leadership in the Graduate Business Association or other student activities. The award was established by Catherine Michaelson ’78, in honor of her father. Robert H. Montgomery Prize in Accounting Awarded for excellence in the area of Accounting. Abe Shuchman Memorial Award in Marketing Recognizes a graduating student in the MBA or Executive MBA Programs whose academic record in marketing is outstanding and who shows promise in the understanding, conceptualization, and practice of marketing. Amena Elliot Webster Memorial Award in Marketing Awarded to a graduating woman who has shown overall academic excellence in the area of Marketing. Robert and Jacqueline Willens Tax Research Prize Awarded for superior skills in the area of Tax theory, practice or research. Suresh Balaraman Prize Presented annually to a graduating student who has demonstrated outstanding work in the field of Finance. Award for Academic Excellence in Management Presented annually to a graduating student who has demonstrated outstanding work in the field of Management. Shuchman-Hulbert Memorial Award in Marketing Recognizes a graduating student with an outstanding record in the study of Marketing who shows promise of future contributions to the field. Nathan Gantcher Prize for Social Enterprise Presented annually to a graduating student who best demonstrate leadership and dedication to social enterprise, and who have made outstanding contributions to the community at Columbia Business School and Beyond. Dean's List Students who achieved at least a 9.0 weighted semester GPA in their first term are included on the Dean's List, provided they have completed at least twelve (12) or more points for a letter grade. In subsequent terms, students who achieved at least a 9.25 weighted semester GPA and completed at least twelve (12) or more points for a letter grade are included on the Dean's List. Learn more about the School's grading scale under Academic Standards. Students can find their GPAs on SSOL. With the exception of courses withdrawn for a grade of "W," Dean's List will only be awarded to students who have completed all of their courses in a given semester. While grades for courses taken outside the Business School apply, only full-time students enrolled for 12 or more credits qualify. Dual degree students are eligible for Dean’s List only during semesters in which they are in residence at the Business School. The grades from all courses taken while in residence at the Business School, even those taken at the student's other school, are included in calculating the GPA for that semester. Dean's Graduation Honors Columbia Business School recognizes the top 25 percent of students in each class (based on cumulative GPA), with Dean's Honors. The top 5 percent receive Dean's Honors and Distinction. If you take courses over the required 60 credits or outside of the Business School, these courses are included in your cumulative GPA and eligibility for these awards. Dual degree students are eligible for graduation honors based on the cumulative GPA earned only during their semesters in residence at the Business School — this includes courses taken outside the Business School during these semesters. Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top