Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Initiative Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Curriculum & Classroom Inclusion Community Diversity Culture & Climate Resources DEI Standing Committee 2021 DEI Report Latest Research More Jump to main content Welcome At Columbia Business School, we believe that diversity strengthens any community or business model and brings it greater success. That's why we're committed to promoting diversity in all its forms by making sure that those from different racial, ethnic, socioeconomic, and professional backgrounds are represented, welcomed, and engaged in our community. Values Statement To achieve our vision of developing innovative ideas and inspiring leaders that transform the world, Columbia Business School (CBS) is committed to the principles of diversity, equity, and inclusion. The faculty, staff, students, and other stakeholders of CBS strive to build and sustain a welcoming and intellectual community that values and respects individuals’ different and shared identities and perspectives, leading to a sense of belonging for all. Individuals’ identities may be based on race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, age, disability, religion, language, socioeconomic status, geographic origin, political ideology, and more. CBS proudly celebrates the diversity of its hometown, New York City, and promotes diversity, equity, and inclusion in the following ways: Actively seeking and including new members in our community who challenge conventional beliefs and propose and respectfully debate bold ideas Fostering an inclusive learning environment and curriculum for all students Continuously measuring our progress by eliciting meaningful feedback from our community Basing decisions about policies and initiatives on evidence and data We have a community-wide responsibility to uphold and defend our shared values and principles at CBS and beyond. Contact Us Feedback for the DEI team? Share your thoughts here. To contact us, please email [email protected]. Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions