About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom Directory The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise » Research » 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference list-style-none About Courses Experiential Learning Social Ventures Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Initiatives Newsroom Business Leadership on the Path to Net Zero Avoiding catastrophic climate change will require a rapid and sustained reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. While more than 1,000 companies with combined revenue over $10 trillion have already pledged to reduce emissions to net zero, there is no clear path for effectively reaching this goal. The 2022 "Climate Business & Investment Conference" will hear from leading academics and practitioners on the latest net zero business strategies and the implications for climate change. This conference — a joint effort by the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise at Columbia Business School and Columbia Climate School — brings together climate academics and business leaders to understand how new advances in research and practice can inform investments in specific sectors of the global economy. The forum explores topics that address the value and opportunity of using a science-based approach to inform and guide business and investment decisions. Agenda Agenda Friday, April 29, 2022 8 a.m.–12 p.m. ET Participants will include leaders from the investment community, a range of business sectors, and academia. Are you interested in joining in person? This event is invitation only, and in-person tickets are non-transferable. In-person space is limited. If you are interested in being added to the invitation list, please email Reilly O'Hara at [email protected]. Are you interested in attending online? Register here. Please note that the agenda is subject to change. Time Event 8:00–8:30 a.m. Breakfast and Networking 8:30–8:35 a.m. Welcome Remarks Costis Maglaras Dean Columbia Business School 8:35–9:15 a.m. Opening Keynote on Net Zero: Opportunities and Challenges Rich Lesser Global Chair Boston Consulting Group moderated by Mark Gallogly ’86 Co-founder Three Cairns Group 9:15–9:35 a.m. Business Leadership by Example Marissa McGowan Chief Sustainability Officer L'Oreal North America 9:35–10:25 a.m. Research on the Business Transition to Net Zero Vanessa Burbano Sidney Taurel Associate Professor of Business Columbia Business School Luisa Palacios Senior Research Scholar Center on Global Energy Policy Shiva Rajgopal Roy Bernard Kester and T.W. Byrnes Professor of Accounting and Auditing Columbia Business School Geoffrey Heal Donald C. Waite III Professor of Social Enterprise Columbia Business School 10:25–10:40 a.m. Coffee Break 10:40–11:30 a.m. Climate Solutions on the Horizon Nili Gilbert ’03 Vice Chairwoman Carbon Direct Julie Gosalvez CMO Climeworks Ryan Orbuch Partner Lowercarbon Capital Gernot Wagner Visiting Associate Professor of Business Columbia Business School 11:30 a.m.–12:00 p.m. Closing Keynote on Scaling Climate Solutions Ethan Brown ’08 Founder and CEO Beyond Meat moderated by Bruce Usher Co-director The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise, Elizabeth B. Strickler ’86 and Mark T. Gallogly ’86 Faculty Director, and Professor of Professional Practice Columbia Business School Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top