Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu EMBA Academics Classes Academic Calendar Core Curriculum Electives International Seminar Cross-Registration for Non-EMBA Students Cluster System Degree Requirements Faculty Residence Period Options & Locations EMBA-NY Calendar Sample Schedules EMBA Global Student Life Speakers & Conferences Student Organizations Support Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Application Deadlines Application Requirements Sponsorship Information for Sponsors List of Sponsors Review Process Events Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply Connect with EMBA Connect with Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid University Employees More EMBA Options & Locations: Designed for Executives EMBA EMBA-NY EMBA Global You have a full slate of responsibilities, yet you’re determined to earn the best MBA possible. We get it. That’s why we designed flexible options that meet the needs of working executives. The EMBA program is identical to our Full-Time MBA in every way but the schedule. That means you apply tomorrow what you learn in the classroom today. Which MBA is right for you? Our two New York-based options, EMBA-New York Friday/Saturday and EMBA-New York Saturday, will enable you to complete the program successfully: We also have partnerships with London Business School and the University of Hong Kong — giving you the opportunity to pursue Columbia Business School’s world-class MBA in multiple locations. Your new global network. Prepare to gain knowledge, as well as a whole new network. You’ll meet students from all our EMBA offerings at various points. This will enhance your connections globally, as well as bring fresh perspectives as you meet a diverse array of faculty members and students. Here’s a quick look at the options: EMBA-NY Friday/Saturday Option Begins in late August Classes are generally held from 8:30 a.m. to 6:45 p.m. Length of program: Five terms, meeting approximately every other Friday and Saturday, over 20 months Requires two five-day residencies, held at the start of the first two semesters Employer sponsorship of time is required. Employer financial sponsorship is not required, though it is welcome Learn more about the Friday/Saturday option EMBA-NY Saturday Option Begins in May Classes are generally held from 8:30 a.m. to 6:45 p.m. Length of program: Six terms, meeting approximately every Saturday, over 24 months Requires three three-day residencies, held at the start of the first three semesters Employer sponsorship of time is not required Employer financial sponsorship is welcome, though not required Learn more about the Saturday option EMBA Global Whether you want to take on a more senior role, redefine your career, or launch an entrepreneurial venture, the EMBA-Global program delivers an exceptional learning experience with a powerful network to match. Moreover, you will immediately broaden your perspectives and apply new insights to your organization. EMBA-Global Americas & Europe Jointly developed by Columbia Business School and London Business School, EMBA-Global A&E offers week-long classes each month and alternates between London and New York City. You’ll learn from expert faculty who shape global business and study with other high-potential, globally-focused executives representing a wide range of industries. The program features: Monthly classes that alternate between London and New York A unique program in which you earn two full MBA degrees after studying in these two major hubs of global business Career services and alumni privileges at each school Meet our students and learn more about the program on the EMBA-Global website. EMBA-Global Asia Columbia Business School, London Business School, and The University of Hong Kong are pausing admissions for the EMBA-Global Asia program due to ongoing pandemic-related travel restrictions. If you are interested in the EMBA-Global program, please reach out to the EMBA-Global admissions teams: Columbia Business School: +1 (212) 854-1961 or [email protected] London Business School: +44 (0)20 7000 7509 or [email protected] Electives for All EMBA Options Offered during the last three terms May be taken on the respective regularly scheduled class weekends, as well as during international seminars and as weeklong global electives May be selected from electives offered by the Full-Time MBA Program, as well as at other graduate schools at Columbia University EMBA Sidebar Links Stay in touch Download a brochure Attend an information session Start your application EMBA Application Deadlines EMBA Application Deadlines (applications go live in August) EMBA-NY Saturday: May 2023 Entry Early January 11, 2023 Final February 15, 2023 EMBA-NY Fri/Sat: August 2023 Entry Early March 22, 2023 Final May 24, 2023 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats