Faculty Faculty Publications Faculty Awards Faculty Directory Faculty by Areas of Expertise Faculty Recruitment Academic Divisions Accounting Faculty & Research Papers Center for Excellence in Accounting and Security Analysis Letter from the Chair Curriculum Seminars Burton Accounting Conference 2021 Burton Accounting Conference Attendees Seminars Doctoral Contact Us Decision, Risk, and Operations People Faculty Staff & Students Research Curriculum MBA Areas of Focus Courses MSE Seminars Conferences PhD Program Economics Faculty PhD in Business Economics Curriculum Electives Initiative for Economic Policy About IEP Events People Seminars Applied Microeconomics Economic Theory Industrial Organization & Strategy International Economics Macro Lunch Group Micro Faculty Lunch Money-Macro Workshop Finance Faculty Curriculum Electives PhD Curriculum PhD Job Candidates Seminars Finance Free Lunch Finance Seminar PhD Seminars Management Faculty Letter from the Chair Curriculum MBA EMBA Doctoral Electives by Topic Seminars Doctoral Doctoral Conference Marketing Faculty & Research Letter from the Chair Curriculum MBA PhD Executive Education Seminars Students Awards PhD Students Conferences Don Lehmann’s 50th Anniversary Marketing Analytics and Big Data Conference Frontiers of Applied Statistics in Marketing Cross-Disciplinary Areas Competitive Strategy About Seminars Faculty & Research Data Downloads Conferences Decision Making & Negotiations About Faculty Publications Research Seminars Accounting Seminars Decision, Risk, and Operations Seminars Economics Seminars Finance Seminars Management Seminars Marketing Seminars Competitive Strategy Seminars Research Leadership Resources PhD Funding Opportunities (Login) Impact Research Archive Pre-Doctoral Research Opportunities Summer Research Internship Centers & Programs Directory Faculty and Research Faculty Faculty Publications Faculty Awards Faculty Directory Faculty by Areas of Expertise Faculty Recruitment Academic Divisions Accounting Faculty & Research Papers Center for Excellence in Accounting and Security Analysis Letter from the Chair Curriculum Seminars Burton Accounting Conference 2021 Burton Accounting Conference Attendees Seminars Doctoral Contact Us Decision, Risk, and Operations People Faculty Staff & Students Research Curriculum MBA Areas of Focus Courses MSE Seminars Conferences PhD Program Economics Faculty PhD in Business Economics Curriculum Electives Initiative for Economic Policy About IEP Events People Seminars Applied Microeconomics Economic Theory Industrial Organization & Strategy International Economics Macro Lunch Group Micro Faculty Lunch Money-Macro Workshop Finance Faculty Curriculum Electives PhD Curriculum PhD Job Candidates Seminars Finance Free Lunch Finance Seminar PhD Seminars Management Faculty Letter from the Chair Curriculum MBA EMBA Doctoral Electives by Topic Seminars Doctoral Doctoral Conference Marketing Faculty & Research Letter from the Chair Curriculum MBA PhD Executive Education Seminars Students Awards PhD Students Conferences Don Lehmann’s 50th Anniversary Marketing Analytics and Big Data Conference Frontiers of Applied Statistics in Marketing Cross-Disciplinary Areas Competitive Strategy About Seminars Faculty & Research Data Downloads Conferences Decision Making & Negotiations About Faculty Publications Research Seminars Accounting Seminars Decision, Risk, and Operations Seminars Economics Seminars Finance Seminars Management Seminars Marketing Seminars Competitive Strategy Seminars Research Leadership Resources PhD Funding Opportunities (Login) Impact Research Archive Pre-Doctoral Research Opportunities Summer Research Internship Centers & Programs Faculty and Research » Academic Divisions » Management » Curriculum » EMBA Courses in Management EMBA Courses in Management Management Faculty Curriculum MBA EMBA Doctoral Electives by Topic Seminars Doctoral The Management Division offers many of the School’s highest-rated elective courses. Management courses provide an interdisciplinary approach to complex business problems that will benefit all MBA students, regardless of their specific career goals. Core Courses Leadership and Organizational Change Strategy Formulation Electives Top Management Process Turnaround Management Managerial Decision Making Foundations of Entrepreneurship Power and Influence Personal Leadership and Success Core Courses B5500 - Leadership and Organizational Change This course is designed to get students to the next level in their careers. The assumption is that their careers have peaked at the point where their technical expertise and IQ can take them; their future success requires getting the ordinary people around them to do extraordinary things. Students will take away practical tools for improving their ability in influencing, negotiating and leading changes in their organizations. Emphasis is on the practical. Many of the principles are demonstrated using classroom experiments. The final project requires students to apply course concepts to an ongoing challenge in their current work environment. B5502 - Strategy Formulation Considers the roles and responsibilities of the general manager, with special emphasis on the strategic management of the business unit. Provides a set of concepts and frameworks for formulating and implementing business strategy. For multibusiness firms, problems of corporate organization and strategy are discussed. Issues of corporate governance and social responsibility are also considered. Students grapple (using cases and projects) with diverse managerial situations: large and small organizations, manufacturing and service industries, growing and mature firms and U.S. and international settings. Electives B7515 - Top Management Process This course examines the ways general managers get things done. Typically, general managers work through processes-sequences of tasks and activities that unfold over time. The course explores six top management processes: strategic, resource allocation, decision making, learning, managerial and change. B7511 - Turnaround Management This course provides students with a perspective on identifying and remedying turnaround business situations, that is, established businesses experiencing operational, financial and managerial difficulties. Students learn, from the standpoint of a general manager, how to distinguish between "troubled" and "crisis" companies and how to use both qualitative and quantitative tools to effect solutions. The course integrates the functional disciplines of the core curriculum; a basic understanding of accounting and corporate finance is necessary. Cash flow and going concern projections, debt restructuring and liquidation analysis, credit relationships and managerial perspectives are central components of classwork. Assignments are group-oriented projects culminating in a final group analysis of a turnaround candidate. B7712 - Managerial Decision Making This course examines the individual and collective factors that affect the decisions that managers make in their everyday work lives. The approach is descriptive and prescriptive, that is, the focus is on how managers actually make decisions, as well as how they ought to make decisions to maximize organizational and personal outcomes. The course is divided into two main sections. The first section deals with individual-level processes that influence managers’ decisions. The second section considers collective (that is, group or organizational) forces that affect managers’ decisions. B8518 - Foundations of Entrepreneurship Foundations of Entrepreneurship is designed to expose MBA students to the skills, joys, and frustrations of being an entrepreneur—and for some, to prepare you to start and nurture your own business. We work together to develop your skills in opportunity evaluation, as well as an understanding of the steps and competencies required to launch a new business. Specific topics include characteristics of successful startups, techniques for finding and evaluating new ideas, customer acquisition, entrepreneurial finance, valuation and deal making, forming effective partnerships, buying and selling a business, family business dynamics, and learning how to pitch. The class is appropriate for those with an interest in the unique challenges and opportunities associated with new ventures—this includes potential entrepreneurs, those interested in the financing of new ventures, working in new ventures, or in the management of new or small organizations more generally. B7531 - Power and Influence Power is the ability to get people to do something they did not want to do and make them happy that they did it (Winston Churchill). Power and influence processes are pervasive and important in organizations, and influence is a key mechanism by which things get done. Therefore, you need to be able to understand power and politics, and to act on that knowledge. In short, you need to be not only good technicians, but also good politicians. This course has four very concrete objectives bearing directly on what you are doing currently: 1) To help you articulate clearly your political objectives in your current work or in your next endeavor if you are making a current career switch. 2) To help you map out the political landscape in your job, which you will need to navigate politically in order to attain your political objectives. 3) To understand the bases of power you have, and whether they are sufficient to attain your political objectives or whether you need to develop more power. 4) To help you develop a concrete political action plan that you will start implementing during the course. A plan that specifies, carefully, the political influence tactics you will need to employ to reach your objectives. B7513 - Personal Leadership & Success Some of our most crucial skills in life have to do with how well we can manage our internal environment – our mindsets, emotions, and positive and negative drives – under ever-changing external circumstances. How quickly can we rebound from setbacks to execute our roles with renewed enthusiasm? How well do we direct our lives based on goals and values? Can we stay calm and focused in the face of intense work pressure? How can we cultivate a winner’s mindset that will allow us to perform at our optimum all the time? What does it take to successfully execute a “change program” in our lives? Personal Leadership integrates three sources of insight on mastering one’s inner environment – (a) Recent Scientific Advances (from psychology, neuroscience, and cognitive behavior therapy), (b) Inner Lives of Great Achievers (such as Lincoln, Gandhi, Mandela, Churchill, Martin Luther King, and Michael Jordan) and (c) Personal Reflections and Applications. Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top