Skip to main content Group 1 COVID-19 Strategy Group 2 Entrepreneurship Economics & Policy Group 3 Media & Tech Social Enterprise Group 4 Leadership Marketing Group 5 Finance Publications Brand Talk Chazen Global Insights Columbia Bizcast Columbia Business Ideas at Work The Lang Letter About Newsroom Leadership How Setbacks Spur Leaps Forward Fostering creativity is vital to the modern economy, but to reach your personal best, sometimes you have to go through the worst. Ideas at Work December 9, 2016 The tortured artist is one of our most enduring cultural images of creativity. From Orpheus, the Ancient Greek “father of song” who sought, and failed, to rescue his wife from the Underworld, to Amy Winehouse, creativity seems to be inextricably linked in our minds with suffering. According to research by Modupe Akinola, there's good reason for that. In a recent study, Akinola, an associate professor of management at Columbia Business School, found that individuals produced works of significantly greater creativity after being primed with a negative stimulus — in this case a brutal review on a mock job interview. What's more, of those who received sharp critiques, Akinola found that those with low levels of Dehydroepiandrosterone Sulfate (DHEAS), a hormone associated with depression and feelings of emotional vulnerability, produced the works judged most creative. That suggests that the connection between depression and creativity, particularly when mediated by a negative experience, is more than a mere myth. For managers looking to spur greater creativity on their teams, the research shows that it may be okay to impose tight deadlines and let workers bite off more than they can chew, Akinola says. Though she's quick to point out that different workers will have different tolerances for the approach and that harsh criticism has no place in more open-ended tasks like ideation. For workers, on the other hand, the research shows that personal and professional setbacks — moments when we’re most likely to feel like just walking away — can be the best ones to achieve creative break through. About the researcher Modupe Akinola Modupe Akinola is an Associate Professor of Management at Columbia Business School. Prior to pursuing a career in academia, Professor Akinola worked in... Read more. Related articles Related Strategy The Race to Innovate Marketing Creativity as a Source of Competitive Advantage: Fernando Machado, Global CMO, Restaurant Brands International Marketing Innovating to Solve Consumer Challenges in a Post-COVID World: Emily Culp ’06, CEO of Cover FX articles by Topic More in Leadership Leadership The Power of Procurement Officers February 14, 2022 Giving frontline officers more leeway, not more oversight, in the procurement process could save governments significant time and money. Leadership How Meaning at Work Impacts the Gender Pay Gap October 15, 2020 New research reveals that women prefer jobs and industries that meaningfully contribute to society — more so than men. Leadership Change Management at Different Managerial Levels Joel Brockner April 9, 2020 Research-based insights on how leaders can enact change at different managerial levels during difficult economic climates. Make a Gift About Us RSS Feeds Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University 3022 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top