About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom Directory The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise » Social Enterprise in the News Social Enterprise in the News list-style-none About Courses Experiential Learning Social Ventures Research Connections Initiatives Newsroom 2021 | 2020 | 2019 | 2018 | 2017 | 2016 | 2015 | 2014 | 2013 | 2012 | 2011 | 2010 Highlighting Tamer Center for Social Enterprise initiatives, ideas, alumni, and faculty members featured in the news. May 2022 Get Ready for the Great Resistance. Companies and Employees Are Locked in a Battle of Wills Over Returning to the Office MarketWatch, May 31, 2022 Professor Vanessa Burbano is quoted saying, "There is definitely a sense of resistance amongst employees against the full-week, all-day, in-person work concept,” and "Remote work also comes with increased opportunities for worker misconduct, worker shirking and putting in less effort, as my research has shown, which is likely part of the reason that there is a desire amongst employers to bring people back to the physical office.” Sustainable Office Design? Research Shows Modular is the Key Out of Office, May 26, 2022 Priya Prasad ’22 and Three Cairns Fellow, was part of an MBA research team supported by senior lecturer and climate economist, Gernot Wagner, that found "ROOM products emit 33 percent fewer carbon emissions than traditional construction." The piece walks through how ROOM designs and produces "prefabricated modular products"" that are "good for the environment." Oil and Gas Majors May Be More Responsive to Pressure on Climate Than Widely Believed Columbia Business School: Leading Through Change, May 25, 2022 Professor Shivaram Rajgopal's research, presented at our Climate Business and Investment Conference in April, suggests ways energy companies can be influenced by their investor stakeholders. Separately, reserach from Luisa Palacios, senior research scholar at Columbia’s Center on Global Energy Policy, who spoke on the same panel, suggests that, increasingly, oil and gas majors can be influenced by their investor stakeholders. Hardika Shah, Founder & CEO, Kinara Capital ET HR World, May 22, 2022 Hardika Shah ’09, founder of Kinara Capital, said that the "biggest driver factor" of her success is, "Staying true to my vision! From the start, I wanted to build a purpose-driven organization that serves small business entrepreneurs in India." HealthyBaby CEO Weighs in on Baby Formula Shortage and Why It Never Should Have Happened CNN Busines, May 19, 2022 Shazi Vsram ’04, founder of Happy Family Brands, was interviewed by CNN International anchor Zain Asher on the baby formula shortage. Do Airline Climate Offsets Really Work? Here’s the Good News, and the Bad The New York Times, May 18, 2022 To reach net-zero emissions and avoid the worst effects of climate change "[a]t some point, carbon offset programs will have to become more transparent and effective," says Professor Bruce Usher. Investment in Carbon Removal Technologies Just Hit an Inflection Point Columbia Business School: Leading Through Change, May 13, 2022 A panel at our 2022 Climate Business and Investment Conference underscores a dramatic revving up of demand for a technological niche. If Roe V. Wade Ends, What Should Feminist Funders Do? Philanthropy Women, May 10, 2022 S. Mona Sinha ’93, center advisory board member, co-wrote a letter about how the leak of the Supreme Court draft decision about Roe v. Wade threatens women’s fundamental rights, and what feminist funders can do about it. Business Leadership on the Path to Net Zero: Reasons for Optimism at the 2022 Climate Conference Columbia Business School: Leading Through Change, May 10, 2022 Climate change presents humanity with a dizzying array of challenges, but our 2022 Climate Business and Investment Conference made clear that "many of these green shoots of progress are emerging from the world of business." Should You Take A Business Loan To Deal With Rising Inflation? Forbes, May 9, 2022 Hardika Shah ’09, founder and CEO of the fintech company Kinara Capital, writes about the factors to consider before taking a business loan to combat inflation. Kinara Capital Raises $50M in Equity from Nuveen, ASN Microkredietfonds to Boost Lending to MSMEs in India MicroCapital, May 4, 2022 "This fresh equity round will energize us to scale faster so that we can continue doing what we do best, which is to bring more small business entrepreneurs into the fold of financial inclusion," said Hardika Shah ’09, founder and CEO of the fintech company Kinara Capital, which raised $50M to boost lending to MSMEs in India. What’s Next for SEC’s Proposed Climate Disclosure Regulation? Bloomberg, May 2, 2022 Professors Shivaram Rajgopal and Bruce Usher write about how the new SEC climate disclosure proposal — if finalized — could motivate companies to increase investment in technologies that both reduce emissions and improve voluntary disclosure of their climate risks. 2022 Best & Brightest MBA: Katherine Boorstein, Columbia Business School Poets & Quants, May 1, 2022 Katherine Boorstein ’22's proudest CBS achievement was serving in the Nonprofit Board Leadership Program for the nonprofit Harlem Chamber Players (THCP), where she proposed a new board structure that the organization implemented. Starting Up and Staying Out May 2022 "Entrepreneurship and Incarceration," a paper by Kylie Hwang, PhD ’20, was referenced in this report on how entrepreneurship for many formerly incarcerated New Yorkers "provides a meaningful pathway to economic opportunity." Return to Top April 2022 Here Are 5 Ways to Live More Sustainably on Earth Day NPR, April 22, 2022 Blocpower CEO Donnel Baird ’13 gave advice on going green in celebration of Earth Day, including calling your local utility company and telling them that you want your electricity to come from 100 percent clean energy. Local Leaders Visit New Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Center on Manhattanville Campus Columbia University: Neighbors, April 5, 2022 Senior director Gwen Shufro ’06 joined local elected and community leaders and other representatives from Columbia to tour the new Manhattanville campus and learn more about the Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Center. Return to Top March 2022 Time 100 Most Influential Companies Time Magazine, March 30, 2022 Cleantech startup Blocpower, where Donnel Baird ’13 is CEO, was named one of Time100's most influential companies in 2022. Making Buildings Green May Take a Chunk Out of Climate Change Bloomberg, March 21, 2022 Climate tech company Blocpower, where Donnel Baird ’13 is CEO, offers a simple solution to green American cities by replacing fossil fuel-equipment with electric alternatives. A More Inclusive Green Energy Plan Starts With Old Buildings Bloomberg, March 18, 2022 Donnel Baird ’13, CEO of BlocPower, hopes to reduce emissions by helping underserved Americans turn their buildlings electric. How to Stir Up India's Nano Entrepreneurs Economic Times, March 15, 2022 Hardika Shah ’09, founder and CEO of Kinara Capital, co-wrote this piece on "the importance of small businesses in the growth and vibrancy of an economy, including job creation, sparking innovation, and absorbing the shocks of economic cycles." Inflation Is at a 40-year High. Is Clean Energy the Solution? Grist, March 15, 2022 Although fossil fuel prices have tended to go up over time, "if you put up a solar power station . . . then you have free electricity for the next 25 years. There are no running costs — there are no fuel costs that have to go up," said Professor Geoffrey Heal. City Pediatricians Look to Scale Clinical Model Embedded in Social Services Crain's New York, March 9, 2022 Drs. Omolara Thomas Uwemedimo, ’11PH; Suzette Brown; and Nicole Brown left their careers in academic institutions to found Tamer Fund for Social Ventures portfolio venture Strong Children Wellness, a holistic care model that connects underserved families to health and social services through community partnerships. Now, they are looking to expand their model. Wealthy Donors of Color Talk About What Motivates Their Giving in New Report The Chronicle of Philanthropy, March 9, 2022 S. Mona Sinha ’93, center advisory board member, said that donors of color often face the same barriers as grantees do. BlocPower Is Turning Every Home Into the Equivalent of a Tesla Fast Company, March 8, 2022 Cleantech startup Blocpower, where Donnel Baird ’13 is CEO, is addressing climate change by giving homeowners in underserved communities the opportunity to electrify their buildings. Business Playbook: How to Work Toward Net-zero Carbon Emissions Yahoo!, March 8, 2022 Professor Bruce Usher commented that the global transition to clean enery is underway and that "[t]he sooner you get started on it, the more likely you can do it at a lower cost and more intelligently, and come up with the best practices for your business." Circular Kids’ Clothing Startup Earns B Corp Status Sourcing Journal, March 7, 2022 Tamer Fund for Social Ventures portfolio member Borobabi (co-founded by Carolyn Butler ’18), a circular children’s retailer that allows parents to buy and rent pre-owned apparel for growing infants and toddlers, achieved B Corp status through its unique business model and commitment to sustainably made garments. CEOs Must Be Ready to Talk About Russia's Invasion of Ukraine, Consultants Say. Here Are Three Pitfalls They Should Avoid Business Insider, March 3, 2022 "It is increasingly important that leaders create a culture in which employees feel safe and supported at their workplace . . . CEOs should offer recognition that this may be a trying time for employees and offer a safe and nonjudgmental space for employees to talk about the issues that may be on their mind," said Professor Vanessa Burbano, in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Return to Top February 2022 Mayor Adams Announces Record 100,000 Summer Youth Employment Opportunities From Harlem To Hollis Harlem World Magazine, February 19, 2022 "[The Summer Youth Employment Program] offers youth opportunities to develop their talents, determine their goals, and establish strong relationships. For many youth in the neighborhoods Children’s Aid serves, this is their only opportunity to gain access to workforce experience and exposure to a network of professionals. I applaud the mayor for this investment and we look forward to supporting it over the summer," said Phoebe Boyer ’93, president and CEO of Children’s Aid, in response to Mayor Adams's announcement that NYC will support a record 100,000 summer job opportunities. Mayor Adams Convenes Second Business Leadership Council Meeting to Discuss Productive Partnership Between Business Community and City Hall NYC Gov, February 17, 2022 Nina Tandon ’12, CEO of EpiBone, was named to Mayor Adams's Business Leadership Council, which creates ways to better aid New York’s economic recovery, including expanding the Summer Youth Employment Program and focusing on public safety. Notable Black Leaders Crain's New York, February 15, 2022 Donnel Baird ’13, CEO of cleantech startup Blocpower, was included on this list of talented and accomplished Black leaders "whose professional and communal achievements enhance New York City and the lives of its inhabitants." Are Wind and Solar Power Really More Expensive and Less Reliable? Columbia Climate School: State of the Planet, February 10, 2022 Professor Bruce Usher underscores that the myths about renewable energy are based on prices and performance that are typically outdated. Celebrating the City's Black Business Leaders Crain's New York, February 7, 2022 Donnel Baird ’13, Blocpower CEO, and Kelly Ifill ’17, founder and CEO of Guava, were both included in this list of prominent Black leaders who are solving some of the city's most pressing issues, such as climate change and injustice and economic inequality. Meet the MBA Class of 2023: Edward Patterson, Columbia Business School Poets & Quants, February 5, 2022 Edward Patterson ’23 was most excited to join the School because of the center's "unparalleled access and experiential learning opportunities." He credits the social enterprise curriculum, clubs, and internships with giving him an advantage in the industry, including using these learned skills to start a nonprofit to "remove the barriers placed on children in underserved communities and provide a space for kids to channel their passions into long-term success." Meet Columbia Business School’s MBA Class Of 2023 Poets & Quants, February 5, 2022 Letty Perez ’21 credits Professor Todd Jick's courses with being a top reason to apply to Columbia Business School, including the course Bridging the American Divides, co-taught with Professor Bruce Usher. The course provides a better understanding of the causes and consequences of American divides — such as educational and political divides — and what students can do as future business leaders to help bridge them. Amanda Carlson, assistant dean of admissions, said that one of the most popular elective courses at the School is Modern Political Economy, which was previously taught by Professor Ray Horton, founder of the Social Enterprise Program and a recipient of the Presidential Teaching Award in 2020. The course helps students understand, predict, adapt to, and shape the evolving world of the political economy from the various views that they will hold during their careers. The course is now co-taught by Professors Glenn Hubbard and Tano Santos. Black Founders Working to Make the Financial System More Equitable Inc., February 1, 2022 Entrepreneur Kelly Ifill ’17, founder and CEO of Guava, is helping Black-owned businesses gain access to startup capital such as banking, community building, and assistance with lower-barrier loans. Return to Top January 2022 Mayor Adams Announces Appointments of Climate Leadership Team, Streamlines Multiple City Environmental Agencies Into One NYC Gov, January 31, 2022 Mayor Adams appointed Rohit Aggarwala ’00, senior advisor at Sidewalk Labs, as chief climate officer and commissioner of the New York City Department of Environmental Protection to protect the city from climate dangers. How Do Top-up Loans Work? Forbes, January 28, 2022 Hardika Shah ’09, founder and CEO of the fintech company Kinara Capital, broke down how top-up loan offers are available to businesses as well. 10 Business Schools To Watch In 2022 Poets & Quants, January 17, 2022 The School's courses in cleantech, climate finance, new energy market development, and sustainability finance are "rooted in social necessity as much as student demand," says Dean Costis Maglaras, who views the climate crisis as a new opportunity for business. Brooklyn Startup BlocPower Raises $30M From Microsoft in Mission to ‘Turn Buildings into Teslas’ Crain's New York, January 14, 2022 BlocPower, where Donnel Baird ’13 is CEO, received a $30M investment from Microsoft’s Climate Innovation Fund, which will support the venture's electrification services and decarbonization efforts to retrofit buildings for low- and middle-income residents. What’s Still Misunderstood About Carbon Markets: Q&A With Professor Bruce Usher Columbia Business School: Leading Through Change, January 11, 2022 Professor Bruce Usher explained why it’s not necessarily bad if carbon markets shift emissions, and what is crucial to creating an effective carbon market. Even My Business School Students Have Doubts About Capitalism The Atlantic, January 2, 2022 Students in Professor Glenn Hubbard's Modern Political Economy class this past fall raised concerns that business leaders are too far removed from the communities that are affected by companies’ actions. Instead, students seek broader social support to maximize economic opportunities for everyone. Return to Top Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top