Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Directions Hotels Contact Our Office Other Career Offices Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Training at the Very Center of Business Student Body at a Glance Entrepreneurial-Minded Employment Reports Contact Us Contact Recruiting Columbia Business School Students Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Directions Hotels Contact Our Office Other Career Offices Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Training at the Very Center of Business Student Body at a Glance Entrepreneurial-Minded Employment Reports Contact Us Recruiting Columbia Business School Students » How Do I Recruit? » Résumé Databases Résumé Databases list-style-none Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Employment Reports Contact Us Our Résumé database can be a highly effective, targeted recruiting tool for you to source talent for specific hiring needs. Find candidates by industry and functional experience, and also by qualities like the languages they speak, the regions they know, graduate degrees they’ve earned, and their undergraduate majors. Online Résumé Databases Available Class of 2023: Full-time opportunities Available at the beginning of September on COIN Class of 2024: Internship opportunities Available in mid-October on COIN How to Access Resume Databases Résumé Databases are available on your COIN home page (once your COIN account has been approved). For any questions regarding the Résumé Database, please contact Sean McGill. Best Practices Identify candidates to invite to events/presentations. Organizations that participate in on-campus recruiting will often reach out to students with specific backgrounds and experience. Perform “under-the-radar” job searches. When confidentiality is key, résumé databases offer a precise way to source candidates without posting opportunities on job boards. Use keyword searches for competitor experience or skill sets. Using keywords allows you to scan all of the résumés in the résumé database, so it is easy pull out candidates with specific qualifications (e.g., Argus, Series 63, etc.). Search by club affiliation to find industry and affinity groups. Find diversity and other desired candidates by diving into club membership. Let candidates know you found them through the Columbia Business School Résumé Database. This adds credibility to your outreach and lets the candidate know your organization has been approved by the Career Management Center. Select the résumés you like and batch print for team review. Easy-to-use features within the Résumé Database show you who you have already viewed, and also allow you to save and print PDF versions of groups of candidates. Sidebar Content Post a Job Log Into COIN Make a Gift Have a Question? Just contact us. Related Content 2022-2023 Recruiter's Guide Full-Time Recruiting Policies Internship Recruiting Policies Corporate Presentation Policies Directions to Campus Full-Time MBA Recruiting Target full-time students for summer internships and full-time opportunities. Download Guide → Experienced-Level Recruiting Target a diverse group of professionals with 5-10 years of experience or more. Download Guide → Masters of Science Recruiting Connect with students who are focused on Financial Economics, Marketing or Accounting and Fundamental Analysis. Download Guide → International Student Recruiting Target students from abroad with diverse backgrounds. Download Guide → skinny-block Quick Links Post a Job → Login to COIN → Order Resume Books → Contact Us → Other Columbia Career Offices → skinny-block Recruiting Calendars Full-Time → Internship → three-block Campus Map and Directions Columbia Business School is located on the University’s Manhattanville campus on W 130th St between Broadway and Riverside Drive. Employment Report 2021 2021 Employment Report Learn more about the diverse career paths of our MBA students. Download Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top