Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Directions Hotels Contact Our Office Other Career Offices Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Training at the Very Center of Business Student Body at a Glance Entrepreneurial-Minded Employment Reports Contact Us Contact Recruiting Columbia Business School Students Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Directions Hotels Contact Our Office Other Career Offices Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Training at the Very Center of Business Student Body at a Glance Entrepreneurial-Minded Employment Reports Contact Us Recruiting Columbia Business School Students » How Do I Recruit? » On-Campus Recruiting » Recruiting Events » Facility & A/V Rental Facility & A/V Rental list-style-none Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Interview Logistics Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Employment Reports Contact Us Please Note: All recruiting activities will be conducted virtually until otherwise noted. Most corporate presentations are held on the Columbia campus. After reserving a date and submitting your confirmation form for the Career Management Center master calendar, you must make arrangements with the site manager of the facility at which you wish to hold the event. Popular locations include Faculty House, Alfred Lerner Hall, Casa Italiana, and Riverside Church. Italian Academy | Faculty House | Alfred Lerner Hall | The Riverside Church | Columbia Business School Classroom Italian Academy at Columbia University 1161 Amsterdam Avenue (between 116th and 118th Streets) Website: www.italianacademy.columbia.edu Event Logistics Contact: Rick Whitaker (212) 854-1623 [email protected] Contracts are made directly with this venue. The Italian Academy building ("Casa Italiana") is a neo-Renaissance palazzo built by McKim Mead & White in 1927 and renovated by renowned architects Italo Rota and Samuel G. White , great-grandson of Stanford White. The building's centerpiece is the magnificent second-floor Teatro, a grand space with large windows, an adjacent terrace, a high, ornately coffered ceiling, and sound and lighting equipment. Do not send any items to the Career Management Center for events in Casa Italiana. We have no way of transporting these items. You must send literature and samples you wish to distribute at presentations directly to the site up to two days before the event. Mark all items with your company name, presentation date, and room reserved. Call the building contact to clarify deliveries and distribution requirements. Back to Top Faculty House 64 Morningside Drive (at 116th Street) E-mail: [email protected] Website: www.facultyhouse.com Event Logistics Contact: Natalie Falato, Catering Sales Manager P: (212) 854-6506 [email protected] Contracts are made directly with this venue. Anticipate a new era for Columbia University Faculty House, a premier event space in Upper Manhattan. Our East Campus landmark welcomes your seminars, meetings, events, and banquets with a fresh perspective and innovative global cuisine. On the outside, Faculty House has been faithfully restored to its 1920s glory. The interiors, however, are completely retrofitted to reflect a modern sensibility, especially in the use of reclaimed and sustainable materials. Now our infrastructure accommodates all of your technical needs, and airy floorplans adapt to every agenda. Timeless décor and warm organic colors balance sophistication with relaxing comfort. Whether you're coming back or arriving for the first time, Faculty House is ready to elevate your occasion with gracious, smart style. Do not send any items to the Career Management Center for events in Faculty House. We have no way of transporting these items. You must send literature and samples you wish to distribute at presentations directly to the site up to two days before the event. Mark all items with your company name, presentation date, and room reserved. Call the building contact to clarify deliveries and distribution requirements. Back to Top Alfred Lerner Hall Columbia University 2920 Broadway at West 115th Street - New York, NY 10027 Event Logistics Contact: Natalie Falato, Catering Sales Manager P: (212) 854-6506 [email protected] Contracts are made directly with this venue. Alfred Lerner Hall is a multi-use campus location with onsite audiovisual and catering services that can be rented for large corporate events. The Roone Arledge Auditorium is suitable for presentations and receptions for groups of 150 to 350. Columbia University Catering, with a dedicated staff and new menus, is the exclusive caterer for events offered in Lerner Hall. Their services can also be engaged to provide catering for MBA events in classroom buildings. Do not send any items to the Career Management Center for events in Alfred Lerner Hall. We have no way of transporting these items. You must send literature and samples you wish to distribute at presentations directly to the site up to two days before the event. Mark all items with your company name, presentation date, and room reserved. Call the building contact to clarify deliveries and distribution requirements. Back to Top The Riverside Church 91 Claremont Ave (between 120th and 121st Streets) - New York, NY 10027 Website: http://www.theriversidechurchny.org Event Logistics Contact: Tanya Dunlap, Coordinator of Rentals & Bldg. Use (212) 870-6866 [email protected] Contracts are made directly with this venue. The Riverside Church offers a wonderful blend of history and architectural design which translates beautifully to the many locations within the building. This historic landmark provides both grand and intimate spaces and some premium amenities from staging to working fireplaces, all lending warmth and ambience to your special event. The locations include: The South Hall - Their largest reception hall measuring 86 feet in length and 62 feet in width and comes with a full stage area and lobby. The space can accommodate a party of 350 for a formal sit-down dinner with cocktail reception area or 500 for an open floor reception. The Assembly Hall - This large gothic-style space with stone pillars and a stage, includes a full kitchen with an ice machine. The space can accommodate a party of 250 for a formal sit-down dinner and 500 for an open floor reception. The Ninth Floor Lounge (9T) - With its view of the Hudson River, this beautiful gothic space has its own wood-burning fireplace and is equipped with a full kitchen and a smaller side room perfect for coat-check or waiting room. The Lounge measures 37 feet in length and 65 feet in width. It can accommodate a party of 100 for a formal sit-down dinner. The Tenth Floor Lounge (10T) - With its gothic columns along each side, the lounge offers a drop down screen and a comfortable pre-function area that can be used for event check-in. Room holds a party of 75 people for a theater style setting. Audio visual needs and technology support are handled directly by the Riverside Church. Do not send any items to the Career Management Center for events at the Riverside Church. We have no way of transporting these items. You must send literature and samples you wish to distribute at presentations directly to the site up to two days before the event. Mark all items with your company name, presentation date, and room reserved. Call the building contact to clarify deliveries and distribution requirements. Back to Top Columbia Business School Presentations for less than 70 attendees may be held in Columbia Business School's classroom buildings, which allows for a small, intimate experience. Classrooms or conference rooms are of various sizes and are equipped with audiovisual or laptop connections. Catering can be arranged through an external vendor; for recommendations please contact Nadege Jean-Romain. Contact Nadege Jean-Romain for assistance with events in classrooms at 212-854-4266. Back to Top Sidebar Content Post a Job Log Into COIN Make a Gift Have a Question? Just contact us. Related Content 2022-2023 Recruiter's Guide Full-Time Recruiting Policies Internship Recruiting Policies Corporate Presentation Policies Directions to Campus Full-Time MBA Recruiting Target full-time students for summer internships and full-time opportunities. Download Guide → Experienced-Level Recruiting Target a diverse group of professionals with 5-10 years of experience or more. Download Guide → Masters of Science Recruiting Connect with students who are focused on Financial Economics, Marketing or Accounting and Fundamental Analysis. Download Guide → International Student Recruiting Target students from abroad with diverse backgrounds. Download Guide → skinny-block Quick Links Post a Job → Login to COIN → Order Resume Books → Contact Us → Other Columbia Career Offices → skinny-block Recruiting Calendars Full-Time → Internship → three-block Campus Map and Directions Columbia Business School is located on the University’s Manhattanville campus on W 130th St between Broadway and Riverside Drive. Employment Report 2021 2021 Employment Report Learn more about the diverse career paths of our MBA students. Download Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top