About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom Directory The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise » Experiential Learning » Careers » Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships 2021 | 2020 | 2019 | 2018 | 2017 | 2016 | 2015 | 2014 | 2013 | 2012 | 2011 | 2010 | 2009 | 2008 | 2007 | 2006 | 2005 | 2004 | 2003 | 2002 | 2001 | 2000 | 1999 list-style-none About Courses Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Research Connections Initiatives Newsroom The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise supports the Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship Program, a unique and exciting opportunity for students to apply what they’re learning in the classroom with an organization making social change in the world. This fellowship provides financial support to MBA students engaged in summer internships that create social and environmental value and Columbia and Barnard undergraduate and graduate students working at early-stage social ventures (in operations for 7 years or less). Questions? Contact Ivy Hatsengate: [email protected]. MBA Students Columbia Students Employers Support Us http://columbiasocialenterprise.org/sesummerfellows/ MBA Students Updates for Summer 2022: Due to COVID-19, remote internships may be permitted for summer 2022. Please visit Columbia Global Travel for additional information on travel restrictions and contact us if you are interested in pursuing a remote internship before starting your application. Organizations that might have difficulty with the salary contribution due to pandemic disruptions should still apply. As an MBA student, your summer experience is a pivotal opportunity to apply theories and tools from the classroom in a practical setting. Social Enterprise Summer Fellows explore new opportunities and deepen existing interests by contributing to organizations that provide fresh challenges and responsibilities, while striving to create positive social change. The Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship Program (formerly called CORPS Fellowship Program) was initiated in 1992 by MBA students. These fellowships enjoy strong Columbia Business School community support; and funds are raised from students every year during fellowship fundraising week with help from staff, faculty, alumni, and friends of the program. In addition, a gift from the Class of 2003 endowed around five internships for MBA students. This widespread support reflects the conviction that Columbia MBAs can make a significant contribution to the field of social enterprise. In 2015, with the creation of the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise, Columbia University students who wish to work full time over the summer with early- or later-stage social ventures are eligible to apply for a Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship. Around 70 summer fellows are supported each year. Read more about the type of internships and value generated by our students working with leading organizations. Questions? Contact Ivy Hatsengate: [email protected]. Student Eligibility To be considered for a Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship you must have completed at least one term of core MBA courses. First- and second-year students, including those that will graduate in May are welcome to apply. Priority is given to first-year students. While the fund does not support part-time internships, students enrolled in the summer semester are eligible to receive funding for full-time mini-internships lasting 2 weeks or more, assuming funds are still available. Please note that funding for mini-internships is only available to January-term students enrolled in summer semester courses. Executive MBA students cannot participate in SESF while on the payroll of another employer. Students should NOT be applying for both the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship and the Lang Center Summer Fellowship. Internship Duration The Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship Program supports full-time internships for 6–10 weeks. Funding for internships longer than 10 weeks should be discussed with the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise. January-term students enrolled in courses during the summer semester are eligible to receive funding for mini-internships lasting 2 weeks or more, assuming funds are still available. Students can make a significant contribution to an organization by working full-time on a short-term basis, on a tightly scoped issue. Mini-internships might involve performing market segmentations, conducting an independent budget or financial plan analysis, researching technology solutions, or analyzing competitor or benchmarking data. Students participating in mini-internships are subject to identical guidelines, responsibilities, and expectations as other student fellows, and should use the application below. At a minimum, students are expected to work Monday through Friday for at least 35 hours per week. Part-time work during the summer is not eligible for funding. Students must not work for two employing organizations concurrently. Eligible Organizations The employing organization can be a nonprofit 501(c)(3) (or its equivalent outside the U.S.), NGO, public sector organization, for-profit social venture, or social venture capital firm with a clearly defined social or environmental purpose incorporated into the core reason for operation – evident in both mission and practice. Eligible for-profit organizations include: Low-profit limited liability companies (L3C); Microfinance or non-bank financial institutions that focus on low-income customers; and Social purpose for-profit ventures or businesses (including B-Corporations) producing products and/or services that: a) focus on addressing the needs of low income communities or customers, with an explicit purpose of increasing the welfare of these groups; or alleviate a market failure, and create significant public goods or benefits that are not wholly captured in the price charged by the business; and b) have attracted funding for the business by investors or grant makers who are seeking measurable social or environmental impacts (evidence of these metrics and reporting should be included in the application). Students who apply for support when working with for-profit organizations in these last three categories must provide detailed evidence of the organization’s clearly defined social or environmental purpose and how this is incorporated into the core strategies and operations of the business. Students interested in working for social ventures should assess the viability of the venture prior to applying for funding. This fund does not cover students working on their own ventures, as students can access other programs and resources via the Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center. Positions with large or publicly listed companies and with for-profit consulting firms that consult to nonprofits, public sector, or other social/environmental organizations are ineligible. Organizations with a narrow political or religious focus or with discriminatory hiring policies will be excluded from eligibility. Criteria and Selection The Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship Program supports internships that have a high probability of success for the student and the employer. Employers are expected to invest time and resources into structuring and managing the activities of the summer fellow. In return, they receive the skills of a dedicated MBA student who can focus on challenging projects for the organization. For students, this is an opportunity to expand their experience, apply their MBA training, and explore career possibilities. Summer fellowships must meet the following criteria: The Internship description is well-scoped, has clearly defined expectations and deliverables, and identifies the supervisor that the student will be reporting to; Activities and projects require the use of MBA skills and knowledge. The position should not be one that could be filled by an undergraduate or non-MBA intern; Deliverables are challenging yet realistic and have a meaningful impact on the host organization; Students have mid- and end-of-summer reviews with the supervisor; and The employing organization provides a sufficient commitment by funding the internship to the maximum of its ability. (Employers are asked to contribute a minimum of $600 per week. Exceptions and salary expectations are described below.) In evaluating summer fellowships, students should also look for opportunities that: Provide access to senior-level management and mentors; Expose students to issues that help them better understand the organization beyond their set tasks; and Include interns at meetings and seminars that give them a broad view of the industry. The summer provides an important opportunity to gain practical experience before reentering the work force. The greater the effort put into identifying and vetting the internship, the higher the likelihood of a successful summer fellowship experience. Compensation Students can expect to receive a maximum salary of $1,200 per week, depending on availability of funds. Employers are expected to contribute a minimum salary of $600 to $1000 per week. This amount may include in-kind support such as housing and transportation. Exceptions to this rule are made on a case by case basis. The Summer Fellowship Program at Columbia Business School contributes $200 to $600 per week for up to 10 weeks (funding beyond 10 weeks is subject to availability). The greater the amount of financial support provided by each employer, the larger the number of student fellows and organizations that the Summer Fellowship Program can support. Organizations unable to meet the minimum contribution may be asked to submit supporting documentation, such as an operating budget or salary schedules for other graduate-level interns. If the employer will not contribute to the intern’s salary, the maximum award available to the fellow is $800 per week, depending on availability of funds. This option is not available for mini-internships. Obligations By accepting the fellowship, you are committing to the following obligations (the Program will review these obligations before the final payment): Summary report and photos to be featured in the summer fellowships website; and Completing an end-of-summer fellowship survey. You will also be asked to volunteer at least three hours to contribute to the spring fund raising campaign. This may involve: Writing a short article describing your experience for the Bottom Line, the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise, or School’s website and/or newsletter; Assisting club leaders in outreach activities during the spring fund raising campaign; Speaking with current and prospective students about your experience; and Participating in activities promoting Social Enterprise Summer Internships, including but not limited to speaking at Career Management Center presentations and at information sessions for the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise and relevant student clubs. Application Process and Deadlines You must have an offer for a full-time (Monday through Friday, 35 hours per week or more) summer position with an eligible organization before applying for a Fellowship. Once you have received an internship offer, the requirements of the Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship Program should be discussed with the organization’s director or your potential supervisor. From the employing organization, you will need to provide a copy of the offer letter and a completed Employer Information Form. Applicants are expected to submit all requested materials, which include the completed student application, tax forms (W-9 for U.S. persons, W-8BEN for foreign persons), offer letter, and Employer Information Form. International students must also submit a copy of passport ID page, page with stamp that shows first entry to USA, and visa (please refer to the ISSO website for more information). If your internship is abroad, travel to a country destination which appears as a high medical or security risk on the Columbia Global Assistance Program's ISOS risk ratings page may be grounds for denial. If you are considering an opportunity in a high risk country, please contact the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise prior to applying, with more details on your summer location and to find out whether internships in this country can be supported. In addition, all fellows planning to travel must register their trip on Columbia's travel registry system, prior to traveling. You must submit all application materials AT LEAST one week in advance of starting your summer internship. First-year MBA students can begin submitting applications March 1. Second-year MBA students can begin submitting applications May 1, assuming funds are still available. Applications will be accepted on a rolling basis until funds are no longer available. Applications submitted early will be reviewed first. You must submit your completed application and be accepted into the summer fellowship program prior to starting your internship. January-term students are eligible for full time intersession internships in August and may submit applications on a rolling basis until July 20, assuming funds are still available. Students are expected to accept or decline funding within two weeks of receiving notice. Award Payments Students who receive a social enterprise summer fellowship will receive an email from Columbia University’s vendor system requesting direct deposit (U.S. bank account) details. The award is typically disbursed in two to three installments over the summer. Students should expect four to six weeks of processing time before receiving their first payment by direct deposit. The obligations outlined above will be reviewed by the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise before the final installment is paid. Students are advised to consult with a financial advisor regarding the tax consequences for this fellowship award. Application Forms Your application MUST be approved before you start your internship. Please submit all application materials AT LEAST one week in advance of starting your summer internship to allow time for processing. Student Application Employer Information (It is the student's responsibility to share this application with their employer for completion.) PDF Creator PDF Merge (for Macs) Columbia and Barnard Students Updates for Summer 2022: As of 5 p.m. on Tuesday May 3, all of our funds for summer 2022 have been allocated. We will leave the student application system open until 12 p.m. on Friday, May 6 for any student who would like to submit an application for our waitlist. Being on the waitlist does not guarantee funding and waitlist applications are only considered if a previously awarded fellowship candidate withdraws. Due to COVID-19, remote internships may be permitted for summer 2022. Please visit Columbia Global Travel for additional information on travel restrictions and contact us if you are interested in pursuing a remote internship before starting your application. The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise supports the Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship Program, a unique and exciting opportunity for students to apply learning from the classroom with an organization making social change in the world. This fellowship was expanded in 2015 to provide financial support to undergraduate and graduate students at Columbia, Barnard, and Columbia-affiliated institutions engaged in summer internships that create social and environmental value. The fellowship program provides students with opportunities to gain experience in their major or area of interest as it is relevant to these organizations; and social enterprises that create social and environmental value with access to talented students from the following programs: Architecture, Planning & Preservation Arts Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Barnard College Climate School College of Physicians and Surgeons Columbia College School of Professional Studies (degree programs only) Dental Medicine Earth Institute Engineering General Studies International & Public Affairs Journalism Jewish Theological Seminary (List College joint degree program with Columbia College or Barnard College) Law Nursing Public Health Social Work Teachers College Union Theological Seminary Questions? Contact [email protected]. Student Eligibility Currently enrolled full-time first-, second-, or third-year undergraduate students and graduate students in good academic standing may apply for funding for a 6- to 10-week, full-time summer internship (at least 35 hours/week) with a social venture or social entrepreneurship-focused organization in the US or abroad, provided that the internship has been secured and accepted at the time of application. The Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship Program contributes a $200 to $600 per week stipend to assist with expenses associated with the internship to summer fellows, depending on the availability of funds. Note: This fund does not cover students working on their own ventures, as students can access other programs and resources through Columbia Entrepreneurship such as the Columbia Startup Lab. Student Eligibility Guidelines Applicants must be currently enrolled full-time as a first-year, second-year, or third-year Columbia or Barnard undergraduate or graduate student; Applicants must be in good academic standing and not subject to any disciplinary proceedings; For multi-year degree programs, applicants must be returning to campus and enrolled as a full-time student during the fall semester after their fellowship, either on campus or participating in an approved Columbia University off-campus program; For students in dual-degree programs, applicants need to have completed at least one semester at Columbia University before applying; Applicants must agree to the terms and requirements of the Social Enterprise Fellowship Program (see below); and Applicants must have secured and accepted an internship matching the criteria prior to submitting their application. Note: Students on leave from Columbia University during the spring semester prior to the desired summer of funding are ineligible to apply for internship funding. Eligible Organizations The social venture or organization can be a nonprofit 501(c)(3) (or its equivalent outside the US), for-profit social venture, or social venture capital firm with a clearly defined social or environmental mission. The intent of the fellowship is to support early-stage social ventures, or ventures which have existed for fewer than seven years. (Please note that new projects, departments, or offices <7 years old are not eligible – the original age of inception of the parent organization is considered for SESF eligibility.) For social for-profit ventures (including Benefit Corporations “B-Corps”) to be eligible, they must be aimed at producing products and/or services that: Focus on addressing the needs of low income communities or customers, with an explicit purpose of increasing the welfare of these groups; or on alleviating a market failure, and creating significant public good or benefits that are not wholly captured in the price charged by the business; and Have attracted funding for the business by investors or grant makers who are seeking measurable social or environmental impact (evidence of these metrics and reporting should be included in the application). If applying to work with a social for-profit social venture: Students must provide detailed evidence of a clearly defined social or environmental purpose and how this is incorporated into the core strategies and operations of the venture. The following are examples are organizations that are not eligible: Nonprofit or NGO that has been in operation for 7+ years and is not wholly focused on social ventures (e.g. Ashoka); Government or public sector organizations; For-profit consulting firms that consult to social ventures; Large or publicly listed companies that have a small division focusing on social innovation; and Organizations with a narrow political or religious focus or with discriminatory hiring policies. Internship Positions We recognize that social enterprises have diverse needs across a range of projects and issues and need expertise drawn from disciplines such as engineering, public health, public policy, economics, medicine, biotechnology, nursing, journalism, arts, urban planning, social work, law/public interest, international development, sustainability, and education, among other areas. The internship role can relate directly to a student’s degree; it can also be an area of interest the student wants to explore especially if the student is thinking about starting a social venture or working for one in the future. Criteria and Selection Summer fellowships must meet the following criteria: The internship is well-scoped, has clearly defined expectations and responsibilities; The internship has an established supervisor from a professional in the organization; The internship provides a workspace for the student during the internship that is co-located with the organization and supervisor; Students will have mid- and end-of-summer reviews with the supervisor; If your internship is abroad, travel to a country destination which appears as a high medical or security risk on the Columbia Global Assistance Program's ISOS risk ratings page may be grounds for denial. If you are considering an opportunity in a high risk country, please contact the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise prior to applying, with more details on your summer location and to find out whether internships in this country can be supported. In addition, all fellows planning to travel must register their trip on Columbia's travel registry system, prior to traveling. Fellowship Requirements By accepting the fellowship, students are committing to fulfilling the following requirements (the Program will review these obligations before the final payment): Attending an orientation and sponsored events; Writing or speaking about your experience which may involve: Writing a short article or blog posts describing your experience for the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise website and/or newsletter Creating a short multimedia piece highlighting key experiences from the fellowship (for example, a video or v-log); Speaking at an information session on Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships, career or relevant student group/clubs event; Summary report to be featured in the summer fellowships website; Submitting at least 15 photographs throughout the fellowship; Completing an end-of-summer fellowship survey/debrief; and Producing a thank you note to the donors for the Summer Fellowship. Application Process and Deadlines Students should assess the viability of the venture prior to accepting and applying for funding by consulting with professors, career advisors at the appropriate home school, or the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise. Before accepting the internship offer, if you’re unsure of whether your employer is an eligible social venture or social entrepreneurship-focused organization, please provide information about the organization by email to: [email protected]. Given the entrepreneurial nature of eligible organizations, these potential employers might not have officially sponsored internship programs; it will be up to the student to discuss scoping and salary for a summer role with the social enterprise, develop well-defined responsibilities and enlist a supervisor for the summer internship. Students can also speak with a career advisor or the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise if they have questions about how to conduct an internship search for social enterprises. Once students have secured and accepted an eligible internship, they can then apply for a Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship from the Tamer Center. Below are the key dates for the Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship application process. Please keep in mind that we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. We anticipate high-demand for fellowships and applications will be accepted on a rolling basis until funds are depleted, which may occur before the final deadline. If you are applying in one of the later deadlines, please note that you may receive the actual payments later than the dates outlined below. March 1: Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship application opens. Students who have secured and/or accepted an internship can complete the full application and other requirements and return it by the first round deadline of March 15. March 15: First-round of completed applications are due. April 1: Second-round of completed applications are due. April 15: Third-round of applications are due. If funds are still available after this date, applications will continue to be accepted. Award Payments Students who receive a social enterprise summer fellowship will receive an email from Columbia University’s vendor system requesting direct deposit (U.S. bank account) details. The award is typically disbursed in two to three installments over the summer. Students should expect four to six weeks of processing time before receiving their first payment. The obligations outlined above will be reviewed by the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise before the final installment is paid. Students are advised to consult with a financial advisor regarding the tax consequences for this fellowship award. Note: Please be advised the U.S. Department of Labor has outlined a list of criteria that must be met in order for an internship to be unpaid. Students should familiarize themselves with the legal requirements of unpaid internships by learning about the Department of Labor’s Fair Labor Standards and Columbia University’s internship policy. Application Forms Your application MUST be approved before you start your internship. Please submit all application materials AT LEAST one week in advance of starting your summer internship to allow time for processing. Student Application Employer Information (It is the student's responsibility to share this application with their employer for completion.) PDF Creator PDF Merge (for Macs) Apply → (This form should only be completed in conjunction with a student application.) Newsletter → About the Center → Employers Is your organization facing managerial or structural changes? Are there major strategic projects that need to be addressed? Do you lack the time and people to address significant projects that you need to complete? If so, consider the value that a Columbia student can bring to your organization. Columbia students have valuable skills and are eager to make a significant contribution during the course of their fellowship. The Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship Program at Columbia Business School connects the energy and talent of Columbia students to nonprofit, public, or social venture organizations. Students contribute their expertise to projects across a range of functional areas including marketing, operations, strategy, finance, human resources, and research. Employers need to first recruit and make an offer to a student before completing the Employer Information form. For more guidance on the Summer Fellowship process, please see sections below on Recruiting Strategies and Application Process. Employers with questions, or who would like advice about summer internship job descriptions, can contact Ivy Hatsengate: [email protected]. Summer Fellowship Criteria The Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship Program supports internships that have a high probability of success for the employer and the student. Employers are expected to invest time and resources into structuring and managing the activities of the summer fellow. In return, they receive the skills of a dedicated student who can focus on challenging projects and areas of need for the organization. For students, this is an opportunity to expand their experience, apply their training, and explore career possibilities. Summer fellowships must meet the following criteria: The internship should be well-scoped, have clearly-defined expectations and deliverables; A co-located supervisor that the student will be reporting to should be identified; An appropriate place of work should be provided for the student; Mid- and end-of-summer reviews between the supervisor and student should be conducted; and The employing organization should provide a commitment to funding the internship to the maximum of its ability. (For example, employers are asked to contribute a minimum of $600 per week for MBA interns. Exceptions and salary expectations are described below.) To attract the best candidates, host organizations should structure the intern’s responsibilities to: Provide access to senior-level management and mentors; Expose students to issues that help them better understand the organization beyond their set tasks; and Include students at meetings and seminars that give them a broad view of the industry. Employers are expected to contribute $200 to $1,000 per week (at least 35 hours/week) to the intern’s salary. This amount may include in-kind support such as housing and transportation. Exceptions to this rule are made on a case by case basis. The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship Program contributes $200 to $600 per week for up to 10 weeks, depending on funds available. As a general rule, a high level of financial commitment by the host organization helps to attract the best internship candidates possible. Additionally, the greater the amount of financial support that is provided by each employer increases the number of student fellows and organizations that the Summer Fellowship Program can support. Organizations unable to meet the minimum contribution may be asked to submit supporting documentation, such as an operating budget or salary schedules for other interns. At the end of the summer, each employer will be asked to provide feedback about the Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship Program and the student’s impact on the organization via a short online survey. Thank you for taking the time to complete the employer information form (below). *Please note: If you are interested in hosting more than one Tamer Fellow during the summer, you must notify the Tamer Center office as soon as possible for planning purposes. Duration of Summer Internship The Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship Fund supports internships for 6–10 weeks, concluding before classes resume for the fall. Funding for internships longer than 10 weeks should be discussed with the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise. Columbia Business School students enrolled in courses during the summer semester are eligible to receive funding for mini-internships lasting 2 weeks or more, assuming funds are still available. These internships should be full-time, but on a short-term basis. Students can make a significant contribution to an organization in a short period of time, on a tightly scoped issue. Mini-internships might involve conducting a market segmentation assessment, conducting an independent budget or financial plan analysis, researching technology solutions, or analyzing competitor or benchmarking data. Students participating in mini-internships are subject to identical guidelines, responsibilities, and expectations as other student fellows. At a minimum, students are expected to work Monday through Friday for at least 35 hours per week. Part-time work during the summer is not eligible for funding. Students must not work for two employing organizations concurrently. Recruiting Strategies Students begin to consider summer internships at the start of the academic year in September. As a result, we encourage organizations to consider their summer internship needs as early as possible. Some prospective social enterprise employers post job opportunities in the fall to reach the largest pool of applicants possible, though organizations continue recruiting well into the spring semester. Organizations that anticipate hiring a summer intern, but are not prepared to formally advertise the internship, can begin to cultivate relationships with applicants, through information sessions, panel discussions, round table lunches, student club events, or introductory emails that highlight the potential needs of the organization during the summer. Current and prospective employers can also attend the annual Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship Program Reception at the end of the summer, to meet past Fellows and connect with first year students. Some social enterprise employers also participate in Columbia University and each School’s structured on-campus recruiting program. Please see the Career Management Center website for details. For the widest distribution to Columbia MBA students, summer internships, and full-time opportunities should be posted on the Career Management Center’s job posting website. For the widest distribution to other Columbia University Schools and Programs, we invite you to find the relevant career office online. Offers of summer internships can be made in the fall semester, though the peak time begins in February and continues into May. Application Process The process of applying to the Summer Fellowship Program for financial support begins after students receive the offer from the host organization. A completed application will include a copy of the offer letter detailing compensation (financial and in-kind) and the duration of employment. Students will also ask the host organization to complete an employer information form (see below). The completed form in conjunction with the students’ application essay (see below) should provide a complete picture of the summer internship position. Students are responsible for shepherding the application process and are expected to submit all components of the application including the employer information form. Applications will be accepted on a rolling basis beginning March 1. Employers with Summer Fellows will be asked to provide feedback about the intern to the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise at the end of the summer. Application Forms Employer Information (This form should only be completed in conjunction with a student application.) Support Us In 1992, Columbia Business School students initiated the Social Enterprise Summer Fellowship Program (initially called the CORPS Fellowship Program) to allow students to apply their business skills and explore social enterprise areas. These students work as project managers, initiative leaders, and change agents for their organizations, seizing opportunities in diversified sectors that identify new approaches, and advance sustainable solutions that create social and environmental value. Donate to the Program → See the Impact Visit the Summer Fellowships website to see students creating value around the world → The number of students who apply to be a fellow has increased rapidly due to growing interest and opportunities in the field. Support from students, alumni, faculty, staff, and supporters of the program have been key to facilitating this growth, particularly across campus to programs beyong the Business School. In return, fellows help organizations across a range of projects and issues, including strategic planning, startup business plan development, marketing and product strategies, financial analysis, operational improvements, and performance evaluation. Donations made to the Social Enterprise Fellowship Program will directly impact students hoping to gain experience with social enterprise organizations. Additionally, the organizations that they work with are able to access much-needed student talent that they could not otherwise afford to hire. Please give online at: business.givenow.columbia.edu For more information on giving, please contact: Starling Sawyer Executive Director of Alumni and Corporate Relations, External Relations and Development +1 (212) 854-9113 [email protected] Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top