About The Lang Leadership Team Lang Center Advisory Board and Lang Fund Board Faculty Advisory Board Curriculum Students Launch Lang Coach Office Hours Entrepreneurship Research Resources Summer Startup Track Columbia Technology Founder’s Track (CTech) Columbia Build Lab Entrepreneurial Greenhouse Program Lang Fund Invest Columbia Venture Fellows Summer Fellowship Program: VC Pitchbook Access Lang Coach Office Hours Join Summer Fellowship Program: Startups Events and Networking Lang Talks CBS Startups Week Fall Startup Showcase CBS Startup Alley at TechDay Alumni Networking Night Alumni Ideas Ideas in Entrepreneurship & Innovation Faculty Research PhD Fellowship Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories ===> CBS Academic Calendar ===> CAMPUS-WIDE ENTREPRENEURSHIP CALENDAR The Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center About The Lang Leadership Team Lang Center Advisory Board and Lang Fund Board Faculty Advisory Board Curriculum Students Launch Lang Coach Office Hours Entrepreneurship Research Resources Summer Startup Track Columbia Technology Founder’s Track (CTech) Columbia Build Lab Entrepreneurial Greenhouse Program Lang Fund Invest Columbia Venture Fellows Summer Fellowship Program: VC Pitchbook Access Lang Coach Office Hours Join Summer Fellowship Program: Startups Events and Networking Lang Talks CBS Startups Week Fall Startup Showcase CBS Startup Alley at TechDay Alumni Networking Night Alumni Ideas Ideas in Entrepreneurship & Innovation Faculty Research PhD Fellowship Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories The Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center » About » Faculty Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Board list-style-none About The Lang Leadership Team Lang Center Advisory Board and Lang Fund Board Faculty Advisory Board Curriculum Students Alumni Ideas Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories Jorge Guzman Assistant Professor of Business, Management E-mail: [email protected] | Website Dr. Jorge Guzman is an assistant professor at the Management Division in Columbia Business School. Jorge received his PhD from the Sloan School of Management at MIT, and was previously a postdoc at the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) and a lecturer at MIT Sloan. His research focuses on entrepreneurship policy, regional entrepreneurship, and entrepreneurial strategy. He was previously involved in the Boston startup ecosystem, and has been an advisor to numerous startups on varied topics, and to regional and national policy agencies on the design of entrepreneurship ecosystems. Jeremy Kagan Adjunct Professor of Business, Marketing E-mail: [email protected] | Website Jeremy Kagan is a growth and innovation consultant and strategic advisor to startups and digital media companies. He is the former Managing Director of the Eugene Lang Center for Entrepreneurship at Columbia Business School. Professor Kagan teaches Digital Marketing and is Faculty Director of the Digital Marketing Strategy executive education program and co-teaches the annual Lean Launchpad class, an intensive one-week boot camp with Steve Blank open to all Columbia University students. His book “Digital Marketing: Strategy and Tactics”, the first textbook for digital marketing, was published in 2018 by the Wessex Press and is now in its second edition, with international editions now available as well. His new book “Designing the Successful Corporate Accelerator” was released by Wiley in 2021. Olivier Toubia Glaubinger Professor of Business E-mail: [email protected] | Website Olivier Toubia is the Glaubinger Professor of Business at Columbia Business School. His research focuses on various aspects of innovation (including idea generation, preference measurement, and the diffusion of innovation), social networks and behavioral economics. He teaches a course on Customer-Centric Innovation and the core marketing course, in the MBA and Executive MBA programs. He received his MS in Operations Research and PhD in Marketing from MIT. Stephen P. Zeldes Benjamin Rosen Professor of Finance and Economics E-mail: [email protected] | Website Stephen P. Zeldes is the Benjamin M. Rosen Professor of Economics and Finance at Columbia University’s Graduate School of Business. In his research, Professor Zeldes has examined a wide range of applied issues in both macroeconomics and household finance, including saving behavior, social security reform, pension policy, retirement account portfolio choices, and annuitization and retirement security. Sidebar Content Like on Facebook Follow on Twitter Connect on LinkedIn [email protected] Course Planner startups.columbia.edu Alumni Newsletter Sign up for our Alumni Newsletter for news and updates about our Lang programs, events, and resources. Subscribe to Alumni Newsletter Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top