School News From the Dean’s Office In the Media CBS On... Press Releases Contact Us Newsroom School News From the Dean’s Office In the Media CBS On... Press Releases Contact Us Newsroom » News » Paid Family Leave Support Increases Among Small Businesses During the Pandemic Paid Family Leave Support Increases Among Small Businesses During the Pandemic Subscribe Media Inquiries [email protected] 212-854-2747 Follow Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Subscribe Ideas at Work e-newsletter Chazen Global Insights e-newsletter News on Executive Education News on MBA Programs * Required fields Thank you for your subscription. Press Releases | February 10, 2022 | As More States Look to Implement Their Own PFL Programs a Columbia Business School Study Shows Consistent Increase in Support by Small Employers since 2016 NEW YORK – The United States is one of only seven countries worldwide that doesn’t provide a national paid family leave benefit for workers who need to stay at home to care for a new child or a seriously ill family member. In the absence of a federal program, nine states and the District of Columbia have adopted programs to assist workers. In January 2022, Connecticut’s new program went into effect, allowing workers to become eligible for up to 12 weeks of paid family leave for qualified medical and family reasons. But even as some states move forward on this new benefit, many policymakers at the national and state level oppose the benefit, arguing that paid family leave is too costly for the business community. But new research from Columbia Business School dispels that idea, finding that support for paid family leave among small businesses increased in the months leading up to the pandemic and has consistently grown since. In the study, Support for Paid Family Leave Among Small Employers Increases During the COVID-19 Pandemic, Ann Bartel, Merrill Lynch Professor of Workforce Transformation at Columbia Business School and her co-authors Stanford University Professor Maya Rossin-Slater, University of Virginia Professor Christopher Ruhm, and Columbia University School of Social Work Professor Jane Waldfogel and PhD candidate Meredith Slopen, had companies with 10-99 employees rank their level of support. The research shows as more companies gained familiarity with paid family leave programs during the pandemic, their support for paid family leave increased over time. “Once companies experienced paid family leave, they were more supportive of it,” said Ann Bartel. “It seems companies without any experience with paid family leave may have a slight fear of the unknown, however, the data shows that year over year the support has increased. In 2020 as the pandemic changed how we work and live, we saw the highest level of support.” The study took place in the New York and New Jersey area analyzing data from 539 companies across different sectors from 2016 to 2020. Participants rated their level of support for the paid family leave programs in those two states on a five-point scale, ranging from very supportive to very opposed. The responses were then collapsed into three categories: supportive (including very and somewhat supportive), neutral, and opposed (including very and somewhat opposed). Key Findings: Among employers interviewed in both fall 2019 and fall 2020, the share reporting that they were very or somewhat supportive of paid family leave rose by 9.1 percentage points, from 61.6% to 70.7% The corresponding share of companies who were somewhat or very opposed to paid family leave declined by 9.6 points, from 20.0% to 10.4% In 2019 companies with 10-49 employees were 2.5 times more likely to support paid family leave “Drawing on data collected immediately prior to and during the COVID-19 pandemic, we provide new evidence on employer attitudes towards state paid family leave programs. Attitudes provide useful information because they summarize employers’ overall experiences with the programs,” Bartel said. “Paid family leave continues to be a hot button topic among policymakers and media; however, this data provides evidence that lack of support among small businesses should no longer be a factor in preventing the passing of paid family leave programs.” To learn more about the cutting-edge research being conducted at Columbia Business School, please visit www.gsb.columbia.edu. ### About the researcher Ann Bartel Professor Bartel is the Merrill Lynch Professor of Workforce Transformation at Columbia Business School and the Director of Columbia Business School's Workforce Transformation... Read more. Filed Under Business Economics and Public Policy Labor Operations Related Stories Samantha Tweedy and the Black Economic Alliance Foundation: Closing the Racial Wealth Gap – An Investment in Shared Prosperity and the Growth of the American Economy Addressing Affordable Housing and Housing Insecurity – A Conversation at Columbia Business School Best MBA Programs if You Want to Get Poached by Apple or Google Published in Fortune The 2022 CNBC Disruptor 50 List: Meet the Next Generation of Silicon Valley Published in CNBC FreshDirect and the New York Common Pantry: A Partnership to Nourish New Yorkers Related Content Subscribe Ideas at Work e-newsletter Chazen Global Insights e-newsletter News on Executive Education News on MBA Programs * Required fields Thank you for your subscription. Media Inquiries [email protected] 212-854-2747 Follow us on Twitter Circle us on Google+ Columbia Business School YouTube Channel Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top