Skip to main content Group 1 COVID-19 Strategy Group 2 Entrepreneurship Economics & Policy Group 3 Media & Tech Social Enterprise Group 4 Leadership Marketing Group 5 Finance Publications Brand Talk Chazen Global Insights Columbia Bizcast Columbia Business Ideas at Work The Lang Letter About Newsroom Ideas at Work Leading through Crisis Successful Protests Require Diversity and Focus Stephen Chupaska June 15, 2020 Social movements draw strength from broad coalitions and clear goals. Leadership Not All Discrimination Is Obvious Stephen Chupaska July 12, 2019 A look at subtle stereotyping and prejudice in the workplace. Leading through Crisis How Will Business Behave in the New Normal? Stephen Chupaska May 19, 2020 New research foresees long-term economic changes from belief scarring. Leading through Crisis Economy Boosters, Economy Busters Noel Capon June 26, 2020 As states continue to struggle with how to reopen businesses, Professor Noel Capon writes that the core focus for revitalizing the economy should be to mitigate the virus. Video Block Video Leading through Crisis: Webinars & Presentations The Fed and COVID-19: What Is It Doing? Is It Working? What Are the Risks? Professor Frederic Mishkin and Patricia C. Mosser, Director of the MPA Program in Economic Policy Management at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, analyze the Federal Reserve’s efforts to bolster the economy during the coronavirus pandemic in a discussion moderated by Kate Davidson of the Wall Street Journal. Leading through Crisis: Webinars & Presentations The Business of Aesthetics: What It Is, Why It Matters, and Why It Matters Now More than Ever Pauline Brown, a leading executive for global luxury firms, discusses how aesthetic intelligence is critical to business success with Professor Bernd Schmitt. Leading through Crisis: Webinars & Presentations Agility, Resilience, and Collaboration in Times of Crisis Beth Ford ’95, president and CEO of Land O’Lakes, joins Doug Baker, chairman and CEO of Ecolab, to discuss how their companies have adjusted to the new realities of business during the COVID-19 pandemic. More Leading through Crisis: Webinars & Presentations Accelerated Trends or Fundamental Changes?: U.S.-China Economic Interdependence After COVID-19 Professor Wei Jiang moderates a discussion between former Obama administration advisor Avril Haines and Christopher Thomas, the former general manager of Intel China, on how the pandemic could alter the relationship between the US and China and what it means for global business. More Topics View for Landing Pages Topics Economics & Policy Perspective on the 2017 Trump Tax Cuts Do Big Box Retailers Need Tax Breaks? Entrepreneurship Why Entrepreneurs Should Use 360-Degree Market Research Women Entrepreneurs Face Challenges in Networking Finance How Will the Data Economy Grow? How Affordable Housing Can Be More Efficient Leadership Change Management at Different Managerial Levels How to Give Negative Performance Feedback Marketing Why 'Downscale' Items Signal High Status Understanding the Nuances of Big Data Media & Tech Q&A With Media Business Expert Professor Jonathan Knee on the Future of Streaming Platforms The Next Generation of TV in an Era of Rapid Change Social Enterprise Going Fossil-Free May Be Cheaper Than You Think Reasons to Be Upbeat about Clean Energy Strategy The Intersection of Data & Human Experience Your Employer’s Politics May Affect Your Motivation at Work publications Brand Talk Archive → Chazen Global Insights Archive → Columbia Bizcast Archive → Columbia Business Archive → Ideas at Work Archive → The Lang Letter Archive → Make a Gift About Us RSS Feeds Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University 3022 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top