About The Lang Leadership Team Lang Center Advisory Board and Lang Fund Board Faculty Advisory Board Curriculum Students Launch Lang Coach Office Hours Entrepreneurship Research Resources Summer Startup Track Columbia Technology Founder’s Track (CTech) Columbia Build Lab Entrepreneurial Greenhouse Program Lang Fund Invest Columbia Venture Fellows Summer Fellowship Program: VC Pitchbook Access Lang Coach Office Hours Join Summer Fellowship Program: Startups Events and Networking Lang Talks CBS Startups Week Fall Startup Showcase CBS Startup Alley at TechDay Alumni Networking Night Alumni Ideas Ideas in Entrepreneurship & Innovation Faculty Research PhD Fellowship Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories ===> CBS Academic Calendar ===> CAMPUS-WIDE ENTREPRENEURSHIP CALENDAR The Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center About The Lang Leadership Team Lang Center Advisory Board and Lang Fund Board Faculty Advisory Board Curriculum Students Launch Lang Coach Office Hours Entrepreneurship Research Resources Summer Startup Track Columbia Technology Founder’s Track (CTech) Columbia Build Lab Entrepreneurial Greenhouse Program Lang Fund Invest Columbia Venture Fellows Summer Fellowship Program: VC Pitchbook Access Lang Coach Office Hours Join Summer Fellowship Program: Startups Events and Networking Lang Talks CBS Startups Week Fall Startup Showcase CBS Startup Alley at TechDay Alumni Networking Night Alumni Ideas Ideas in Entrepreneurship & Innovation Faculty Research PhD Fellowship Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories The Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center » About » The Lang Leadership Team The Lang Leadership Team list-style-none About The Lang Leadership Team Lang Center Advisory Board and Lang Fund Board Faculty Advisory Board Curriculum Students Alumni Ideas Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories Angela W. Lee Faculty Director Angela's Bio Angela Lee is a Professor of Practice and the Chief Innovation Officer at Columbia Business School. She teaches Venture Capital (Foundations of VC, VC Seminar) and Leadership (The Leader’s Voice) courses. She brings 20 years of innovation, strategy and entrepreneurship experience to the classroom. She started her career in product management and then moved into strategy consulting at McKinsey. Angela is passionate about entrepreneurship and has started several companies in the education sector. She is a startup investor and the founder of 37 Angels, an investing network that has evaluated 15000 startups, invested in 60, and activates new investors through a startup investment bootcamp. Angela has spoken at the White House and NASA and is a sought-after expert on CNBC, Bloomberg TV, MSNBC, and Fox Business. She was recognized by Inc. as one of 17 Inspiring Women to Watch in 2017, by Entrepreneur Magazine as one of 6 Innovative Women to Watch in 2015, and by Craine’s as a Notable Women in Tech in 2019. Angela received her BA from the University of California, Berkeley and her MBA from Columbia Business School. ” Lara Hejtmanek '99 Director [email protected] Lara's Bio Lara is the Director of the Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center. She has experience as an angel investor, focusing on early stage social enterprise companies. Prior to joining the Lang Center, she worked at several early stage companies in strategy and planning roles, and has over 20 years of experience in digital marketing. Most recently she founded and led the Insights & Planning practice for 360i – named the #1 digital agency in the country by AdAge for four years in a row – serving major brands for clients in CPG, travel and retail. There she led her team in bringing together consumer insights with emerging technologies to identify high impact opportunities for clients, spanning social media, mobile, search, paid media, and overall brand strategy. Lara holds a BA in Art History from Vassar College and an MBA from Columbia University. Gabriel Mejia TC '16 Senior Associate Director [email protected] Gabriel's Bio Gabriel is the Senior Associate Director, Students, at the Lang Center where he supports curriculum planning and student programming. Prior to this role, Gabriel has held positions in academic administration, curriculum strategy, and experiential learning in other schools within Columbia University, NYU Stern, and Fordham University. Most recently, Gabriel was the Assistant Dean of the graduate programs in Finance and Management at Fordham University. Gabriel holds a BA in International Studies and International Management from Manhattanville College, and a MA in Higher and Postsecondary Education from Teachers College, Columbia University. Cristina Cojoc Accounts Payable Manager [email protected] Cristina's Bio Cristina Cojoc is an accountant with more than seven years of experience in accounts payable, accounts receivables, journal entries, and tax preparation. She joined Columbia Business School two and a half years ago and works as an Accounts Payable Officer at Columbia University serving two centers: Jerome A. Chazen Institute and Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center. Before joining CBS, Cristina worked most recently as accountant for First Manhattan Consulting Group in New York, and ACT (American College Testing) in Iowa City. Cristina has lived all across the US and she has also been a tax preparer in California. Cristina completed her college degree in Economics in Romania and moved to the US with her husband in 2001. She continued her education by taking classes in statistics and psychology, and completed all the required accounting courses for the CPA exam. She has two children and in her spare time she enjoys yoga, baking, gardening, and going to the beach. Allen Chen Program Manager [email protected] Allen's Bio Allen manages the overall planning and execution of events, programs, and conferences for the Lang Center. Prior to joining the Lang Center, he worked in various management and event planning roles from overseeing daily operations of a Conference Services department to producing high-level, invite-only healthcare conferences. Allen received his BA from the University of Connecticut and his MBA from Iona College. In his spare time, he enjoys watching basketball, hitting bags at the boxing gym, and being outdoors with his family. Diego Cabaleiro Coordinator [email protected] Diego's Bio Diego is the Program Coordinator of the Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center, coordinating events, programming, and marketing. Prior to Columbia Business School, Diego worked in digital media/marketing with clients in CPG, travel, and nonprofit verticals in executing strategies to achieve their business goals. Diego holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in Marketing from Baruch College, Zicklin School of Business. Sidebar Content Like on Facebook Follow on Twitter Connect on LinkedIn [email protected] Course Planner startups.columbia.edu Alumni Newsletter Sign up for our Alumni Newsletter for news and updates about our Lang programs, events, and resources. Subscribe to Alumni Newsletter Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top