About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom Directory The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise » Connections » Nonprofit Board Leadership Program » Student Information Student Information list-style-none About Courses Experiential Learning Social Ventures Research Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives Newsroom Justine Chausson ’20 and Jamie Landsman ’20 worked with The Women’s Housing and Economic Development Corporation (WHEDco) as part of the NBLP. WHEDco’s mission is to give the South Bronx access to all the resources that create thriving neighborhoods, from high-quality early education and after-school programs, to fresh, healthy food, cultural programming, and economic opportunity. Current Columbia MBA and EMBA students apply during the fall semester to participate in the Nonprofit Board Leadership Program, which runs throughout the academic year. Information about this program is circulated at student clubs association day, at an information session in September, and via email. Link to the online application Frequently asked questions: Can I find my own nonprofit to bring to the program? No, but if you have a suggestion of an organization to work with, you can pass it along to Gwen Shufro so that she can determine if the organization fits the program’s criteria. Is NBLP its own club with dues? No, but it is part of the Social Enterprise Club. Students who participate in NBLP must join the Social Enterprise Club and pay that club's dues. Refunds will be available should the student not participate in NBLP that school year. Do I get to choose which nonprofit I work with? No. An application and selection process is in place to create the best matches possible, based on student experience and area of interest. Is the program only for second year students? First-year and EMBA students are welcome to apply for NBLP, but the program accepts a smaller portion of first-year students and EMBA students (approximately 15 percent of the total slots available). Can I participate in the program as a first and second year? Yes and no. Many first years find their match so interesting and successful that they continue to work informally with the nonprofit during their second year. However, students who have been accepted as first-years are not allowed to reapply and work with a different nonprofit in order to accommodate as many students as possible. If you would like to participate both years, you can apply to be an assistant vice president of NBLP for the Social Enterprise Club. If elected, then you would not be matched with a mentor during your first year, but instead, be a part of the leadership team of the NBLP, assisting with the administration of the program. Contingent on your performance as AVP, you would serve as VP of the program and participate in the program during your second year. Can I apply as a second year if I am not accepted in my first year? Students who are not accepted as first-years are strongly encouraged to apply again. In their applications, the students should emphasize what they have learned in the past year that makes them a stronger candidate. Unfortunately, the program cannot match all deserving students, but makes every attempt to do so. What resources are available to me once I become part of the program? Students involved in the program have the opportunity to participate in a variety of workshops, panels and networking events designed to provide additional assistance to students as they complete their projects. Popular past topics likely be repeated annually include fundraising, board governance and structure, how to join a nonprofit board, and more. Students will also have the opportunity to take advantage of the professional expertise of the Nonprofit Board Leadership Program Professional Network, a group of accomplished business leaders who have volunteered to make themselves available for student questions. Other nonprofit board and volunteering links For more information, please contact Gwen Shufro at [email protected] Sidebar Content Community Profile “The NBLP experience gave me the amazing opportunity to apply my coursework right away, as well as help a leading organization that is confronting one of society's hardest problems today — assisting those experiencing homelessness. I recommend NBLP to anyone looking to get further exposure to the nonprofit world!” — Christopher Franzi ’21 Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top