About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom Directory The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise » Research » Faculty Viewpoints Faculty Viewpoints list-style-none About Courses Experiential Learning Social Ventures Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Initiatives Newsroom Columbia Ideas at Work showcases recent business research with an online magazine, provides research briefs which highlight main findings of research papers, and has a searchable archive of faculty publications and viewpoints. Papers featuring social enterprise topics and faculty include: What Does It Mean to Have a Meaningful Job? Recent scholarship from Professor Stephan Meier suggests that it’s not just the mission of workplace that matters, but factors such as autonomy, competence, and “relatedness,” or feeling connected to an organization, that defines a meaningful job. Planetary Economics Professor Geoffrey Heal argues global economic growth and sustainability can — and should — go hand in hand. No News is Good News When it comes to social responsibility, writes Professor Stephan Meier, being too bad or too good can bring harmful headlines. Teaching Beyond the Test Professor Jonah Rockoff discusses how a good teacher's influence can affect student test scores and long-term success in life. Undersavers Anonymous Professor Stephan Meier investigates how a simple text message can prompt the poor to double their savings. Taking Attendance with Teachers Professor Jonah Rockoff discusses how much teacher absences hurt student achievement. Are Macro Changes in Store for Microlending Professor Suresh Sundaresan explores how new financial tools and technologies are poised to change the way microfinance is practiced. The Nonprofit MBA The nonprofit sector is always hit particularly hard during recessions. That, Professor Ray Horton says, gives MBAs and today's nonprofits more to offer each other than ever. Making the Grade with Mentoring Professor Jonah Rockoff examines data from New York City's public schools to assess whether mentor programs — increasingly used in the private as well as the public sector — reduce employee turnover and improve productivity. The ROI of CSR Professor Geoffrey Heal discusses his book When Principles Pay, in which he considers how a firm's environmental and social performance affect its competitiveness and financial performance. Insuring against Global Warming Professor Geoffrey Heal explores how much countries should spend to avoid the uncertain risk of climate change, and how this uncertainty should factor into government decisions on prevention measures. Making Globalization Fair In discussing the politics of globalization, Professor Joseph Stiglitz, a prominent critic of globalization's shortcomings and author of Making Globalization Work, offers practical ideas for extending its benefits. Small Loans on a Large Scale Is microfinance the key to ending poverty in the developing world? Professor Suresh Sundaresan and PhD student Sam Cheung examine the issues facing both lenders and borrowers in the microfinance market. Lending to the Poor How can credit markets in developed countries help low-income families break the cycle of poverty? Professor Patrick Bolton discusses a book edited with Howard Rosenthal that came out of a conference on credit markets for the poor in developed countries. Fixing Public Schools Does teacher certification affect student performance? Professor Jonah Rockoff looks at the performance of public school teachers in New York City. Reassessing Robert Moses and his Vision for New York Professor Ray Horton, who was for 15 years president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonprofit organization that promotes good government in New York City and New York State, discusses the recent nostalgia for the master builder. Ownership Versus Environment: Why Are Public Sector Firms Inefficient? Privatization is not the only way to improve the performance of public-sector enterprises. A study of Indonesian firms, by Professors Ann Bartel of Columbia and Ann Harrison of UC Berkeley, shows that less drastic changes can lead to similar gains in productivity. A Combinational Auction Improves School Meals in Chile Professor Gabriel Weintraub et al. look at the auction models used to assign catering contracts for school lunches in Chile. Our faculty are also featured in a variety of national publications. Read more here. Sidebar Content Sign Up for Newsletter Download Brochure Faculty Profile "We’re able to measure pretty accurately at the teacher level how students are performing. Having a highly effective teacher or having a mediocre teacher makes a large difference in student achievement." —Jonah Rockoff, Professor of Business Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top