Partnership Opportunities Research Initiatives Student-Run Events Fellowships and Scholarships Corporate and Foundation Partners Speak at the School Silfen Leadership Series Student Activities Contact Us Directory Corporate and Foundation Relations Partnership Opportunities Research Initiatives Student-Run Events Fellowships and Scholarships Corporate and Foundation Partners Speak at the School Silfen Leadership Series Student Activities Contact Us Corporate and Foundation Relations » Speak at the School Speak at the School Main menu Partnership Opportunities Corporate and Foundation Partners Speak at the School Silfen Leadership Series Student Activities Contact Us Columbia Business School is at the very center of business, with deep ties to the most influential leaders today, a symbiotic relationship with New York City, and a real-time connection to the pulse of global business. Prominent figures visit campus every day to participate in an ongoing dialogue with our students, faculty members, and more than 40,000 alumni. Together, our community drives important changes in real-world business practices all over the world. By joining in the discussion, you’ll gain access to this unparalleled thought leadership, be better positioned to tap Columbia’s influential network, and build relationships — and help guide — the students who will become tomorrow’s global business leaders. Below are just a few of the opportunities available to speak at the School. David and Lyn Silfen Leadership Series An opportunity for a candid conversation with our students, this speaker series has developed an impressive reputation, as evident by past guests. Learn more. Student Activities Life at the School is rich, thanks in part to our more than 100 student-run clubs and organizations. They host events throughout the year and value bringing executives in to enrich the discussion. Learn more. Classroom Guest Speakers A Columbia Business School education goes far beyond the theoretical. We tap into what’s happening in the business world every day, in part by inviting real-world business leaders to the classroom to provide their insights. Learn more. Sidebar Content Make a Gift Download our Partnership Guide Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top