About The Lang Leadership Team Lang Center Advisory Board and Lang Fund Board Faculty Advisory Board Curriculum Students Launch Lang Coach Office Hours Entrepreneurship Research Resources Summer Startup Track Columbia Technology Founder’s Track (CTech) Columbia Build Lab Entrepreneurial Greenhouse Program Lang Fund Invest Columbia Venture Fellows Summer Fellowship Program: VC Pitchbook Access Lang Coach Office Hours Join Summer Fellowship Program: Startups Events and Networking Lang Talks CBS Startups Week Fall Startup Showcase CBS Startup Alley at TechDay Alumni Networking Night Alumni Ideas Ideas in Entrepreneurship & Innovation Faculty Research PhD Fellowship Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories ===> CBS Academic Calendar ===> CAMPUS-WIDE ENTREPRENEURSHIP CALENDAR The Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center About The Lang Leadership Team Lang Center Advisory Board and Lang Fund Board Faculty Advisory Board Curriculum Students Launch Lang Coach Office Hours Entrepreneurship Research Resources Summer Startup Track Columbia Technology Founder’s Track (CTech) Columbia Build Lab Entrepreneurial Greenhouse Program Lang Fund Invest Columbia Venture Fellows Summer Fellowship Program: VC Pitchbook Access Lang Coach Office Hours Join Summer Fellowship Program: Startups Events and Networking Lang Talks CBS Startups Week Fall Startup Showcase CBS Startup Alley at TechDay Alumni Networking Night Alumni Ideas Ideas in Entrepreneurship & Innovation Faculty Research PhD Fellowship Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories The Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center » Faculty Research Faculty Research list-style-none About Curriculum Students Alumni Ideas Ideas in Entrepreneurship & Innovation Faculty Research PhD Fellowship Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories Management Division Mabel Abraham Explaining Unequal Returns to Social Capital Among Entrepreneurs Do men and women generate the same benefits from using their social ties? More Information → Dan Wang Exposed: Venture Capital, Competitor Ties, and Entrepreneurial Innovation The impact of early relationships on innovation at entrepreneurial firms. More Information → When Do Returnees Become Entrepreneurs? The Effects of Institutional Environment and Regional Embeddedness How variation in regional entrepreneurial concentration, institutional environments, and local social ties affect rates of entrepreneurship among skilled return migrants. More Information → The Liability Of Leakage: How Indirect Ties To Competitors Impact Innovation In Entrepreneurial Firms This working paper investigates the impact of early relationships on entrepreneurial firm innovation. More Information → Marketing Division Oded Netzer Idea Generation, Creativity, and Prototypicality We explore the use of big data tools to shed new light on the idea generation process, automatically “read” ideas to identify promising ones, and help people be more creative. More Information → Mine Your Own Business: Market Structure Surveillance Through Text Mining We propose an approach for firms to explore online user-generated content and “listen” to what customers write about their and their competitors’ products. View Research → Olivier Toubia Idea Generation, Creativity, and Prototypicality We explore the use of big data tools to shed new light on the idea generation process, automatically “read” ideas to identify promising ones, and help people be more creative. More Information → Can Big Data Give us Big Ideas? Big Data can do more than target advertisements, it could even help innovators develop new concepts and products. View Research → Improving Online Idea Generation Platforms and Customizing the Task Structure Based on Consumers’ Domain Specific Knowledge How firms can enhance consumer performance in online idea generation platforms. View Research → Adaptive Idea Screening Using Consumers We propose a practical approach to involving consumers in idea screening. More Information → Idea Generation, Creativity, and Incentives Can carefully-tailored ideation incentives improve creative output? View Research → Finance Division Tetyana Babina Going Entrepreneurial? IPOs and New Firm Creation Using an instrumental variables strategy, we find strong evidence that going public induces employees to depart for startups. View Research → Destructive Creation at Work: How Financial Distress Spurs Entrepreneurship How firm financial distress drives the exit of workers to pursue entrepreneurship. View Research → Morten Sorensen Which CEO Characteristics and Abilities Matter? CEO candidates vary along two primary dimensions: one that captures general ability and another that contrasts communication and interpersonal skills with execution skills. View Research → Risk and Return Characteristics of Venture Capital-Backed Entrepreneurial Companies We develop a general model of dynamic sample selection and estimate it using data from venture capital investments in entrepreneurial companies. View Research → How Smart Is Smart Money? A Two-Sided Matching Model of Venture Capital I find that companies funded by more experienced VCs are more likely to go public. More Information → Learning by Investing: Evidence From Venture Capital VCs learn from past investments (exploitation), but also consider the option value of future learning (exploration) when making investment decisions. View Research → Neng Wang Entrepreneurial Finance and Non-Diversifiable Risk We demonstrate the implications of non-diversifiable risks for entrepreneurs' interdependent consumption, portfolio allocation, financing, investment, and business exit decisions. More Information → A Unified Model of Entrepreneurship Dynamics An incomplete-markets q-theoretic model to study entrepreneurship dynamics. View Research → Experimentation under Uninsurable Idiosyncratic Risk: An Application to Entrepreneurial Survival An analytically tractable continuous-time model of experimentation in which a risk-averse entrepreneur cannot fully diversify the idiosyncratic risk from his business investment. View Research → General R. Glenn Hubbard 'Success Taxes,' Entrepreneurial Entry, and Innovation Using education as a measure of potential for innovation, we find that tax convexity discourages entry into self-employment for people of all educational backgrounds. View Research → Tax Policy and Entrepreneurial Entry The impacts of tax rates and tax progressivity on the decision to become an "entrepreneur." View Research → Murray Low Tips for a Successful Exit: How Entrepreneurs Sell a Company or Transfer Ownership A deeper understanding of the entrepreneur’s journey. View Related White Paper → Regulatory Focus Theory and the Entrepreneurial Process For certain aspects of the entrepreneurial process (e.g., generating ideas with the potential to be successful), greater promotion focus is necessary. View Research → The Adolescence of Entrepreneurship Research: Specification of Purpose A perspective on the special challenges faced by the field of entrepreneurship, and the reasons for slow progress. More Information → Sidebar Content Like on Facebook Follow on Twitter Connect on LinkedIn [email protected] Course Planner startups.columbia.edu Entrepreneurship Research Showcase Explore More For a complete list of entrepreneurship-related research produced by faculty: Research Archive Alumni Newsletter Sign up for our Alumni Newsletter for news and updates about our Lang programs, events, and resources. Subscribe to Alumni Newsletter Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top