Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Directions Hotels Contact Our Office Other Career Offices Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Training at the Very Center of Business Student Body at a Glance Entrepreneurial-Minded Employment Reports Contact Us Contact Recruiting Columbia Business School Students Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Directions Hotels Contact Our Office Other Career Offices Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Training at the Very Center of Business Student Body at a Glance Entrepreneurial-Minded Employment Reports Contact Us Recruiting Columbia Business School Students » How Do I Recruit? » On-Campus Recruiting » Interview Policies » Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies list-style-none Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Recruiting Events Visiting Campus Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Employment Reports Contact Us Job Descriptions Upload job descriptions in COIN before your corporate presentation in the fall or one month before the position's application deadline, at the latest. Best Practice: Upload job descriptions to COIN as early as possible before your company presentation and be very detailed regarding the position’s function, requirements, location, and work authorization to ensure that you receive the most prepared candidates. If job descriptions are uploaded late (less than one month prior to the application deadline) or are ambiguous, companies may be disappointed in application numbers. Application Due Dates Applications must be solicited through COIN for all positions companies will recruit for on campus. Companies may require additional means of application if they wish; this information may also be communicated to candidates through COIN. Application deadlines generally default to 9 a.m. ET one week before the invitation-list due date. For internships, the earliest application due date is Monday, November 28, 2022. Interview Policies No interviews or offers are permitted between August 22, 2022 and January 2023, as indicated below. Exceptions may be allowed for certain international and regional offices outside of the New York tri-state area, only with prior approval from the CMC. First-round interviews for investment banking begin Wednesday, January 4, 2023, with second rounds-permitted starting Saturday, January 7, 2023. First round interviews for all industries begin Monday, January 9, 2023. Second-round interviews for all other industries begin Friday, January 13, 2023. Offers for investment banking internships may not be extended before 5 p.m. EST on Tuesday, January 10, 2023. Offers for industries outside of investment banking may be extended anytime after the completion of first-round interviews. Recruiters must advise the CMC of plans to hold off-campus first-round interviews to avoid significant recruiting conflicts. This notice must include the number of candidates seen and the duration of interviews. Second Round interviews: Students may not be invited to or be asked to commit to second-round interviews before first-round interviews are complete. Second-round interviews are scheduled directly between the candidate and the company. If candidates are required to travel to other cities to interview, your organization’s policy on travel reimbursement should be clearly outlined in advance. Recruiters may not hold second-round interviews on the same day as first-round interviews. Companies should offer an alternate date and time for second-round and/or out-of-town interviews for students with scheduling conflicts. Companies interviewing outside of the New York area should inform the CMC of their interview timing in advance. Overall: Students may not miss class for recruiting events or interviews. Students should not be expected to interview outside the New York tri-state area on class days (Monday through Thursday). Companies choosing to interview students on Friday evenings or Saturdays must be prepared to accommodate students who request an alternate day for religious reasons. Companies should update candidates of their status within two weeks of interviews taking place. Interview Blackout Periods Students should not be asked to interview during exam and blackout periods. There are also event blackout dates to keep in mind when planning your recruiting schedule: Martin Luther King Jr. Day January 16 Midterm exams and Spring break March 6-17 Final exams May 1-12 Commencement May 17 Summer Internships Offer Policies Offers for investment banking summer internships may not be extended before 5 p.m. EST on Friday, January 13, 2023. Offers for industries outside of investment banking may be extended anytime after the completion of first-round interviews. Firms may not invite students to sell events or other post-interview events until an offer has been extended. All summer internship offers must remain open until at least Friday, February 3, 2023, or for a minimum of three weeks from receipt of a written offer, whichever is later. Offers extended after February 26, 2023 must remain open for at least seven calendar days. The fundamental terms of an offer must remain unchanged until the expiration date, although incentives encouraging students to commit before the deadline are permitted, so long as incentives are small relative to the overall value of the offer. Companies should not make conditional offers or ask questions implying a conditional offer—for example, “If we made you an offer, would you accept it?” Student feedback indicates that this makes firms appear desperate and lacking confidence in the recruiting process. Furthermore, conditional offers do not allow students time to consider their options. Hiring organizations should inform students of their status and/or timeline for decisions within two weeks of their interviews, regardless of outcome. The rescinding of a verbal or written job offer, unless done under extenuating circumstances such as unforeseen business conditions or egregious student behavior, is a very serious violation of Columbia Business School recruiting policy and will be handled accordingly. Delayed start dates of an extended period may be considered rescinded offers as well. Sanctions against firms in violation of this policy will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Any organization considering rescinding an offer or delaying a start date should first contact Dan Gabriel, Director of Employer Relations. Students who accept offers verbally or in writing and then renege on that commitment have violated recruiting policy and the Columbia Business School Honor Code. Sanctions will be considered on a case-by-case basis and will include disciplinary action, which may result in the suspension of recruiting privileges and/or a requirement to appear before the Dean’s Disciplinary Committee. Click here for Full Time Offer Policies. Pre-interview Dinners and Sell Days Pre-interview events the night before interviews are generally not allowed. Exceptions may be made for companies outside the New York tri-state metropolitan area. Please consult your firm’s account manager about your company’s circumstances. Sell events should never conflict with academic commitments and are therefore best held on Fridays or Saturdays. Additionally, firms may not invite students to sell events or other post-interview events until offers have been extended. Sidebar Content Post a Job Log Into COIN Make a Gift Have a Question? Just contact us. Related Content 2022-2023 Recruiter's Guide Full-Time Recruiting Policies Internship Recruiting Policies Corporate Presentation Policies Directions to Campus Full-Time MBA Recruiting Target full-time students for summer internships and full-time opportunities. Download Guide → Experienced-Level Recruiting Target a diverse group of professionals with 5-10 years of experience or more. Download Guide → Masters of Science Recruiting Connect with students who are focused on Financial Economics, Marketing or Accounting and Fundamental Analysis. Download Guide → International Student Recruiting Target students from abroad with diverse backgrounds. Download Guide → skinny-block Quick Links Post a Job → Login to COIN → Order Resume Books → Contact Us → Other Columbia Career Offices → skinny-block Recruiting Calendars Full-Time → Internship → three-block Campus Map and Directions Columbia Business School is located on the University’s Manhattanville campus on W 130th St between Broadway and Riverside Drive. Employment Report 2021 2021 Employment Report Learn more about the diverse career paths of our MBA students. Download Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top