Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Research Opportunities Research training and mentoring from our leading global researchers. Research Opportunities Predoctoral Fellowships Alumni and Placements Current Predoctoral Fellows Postdoctoral Fellowships Summer Research Internship Summer Intern Placements Past Summer Research Projects 2019 Projects 2018 Projects 2017 Projects 2016 Projects 2015 Projects 2014 Projects CUBS Program CDBE Award More Jump to main content Overview Columbia Business School offers a number of opportunities to do high-impact research in the ultimate laboratory for business: New York City. Our renowned faculty work closely with and mentor our predoctoral research fellows, postdoctoral research fellows, research assistants, and summer research interns to prepare them for future careers in business research. Opportunities Summer Research Internship Program CBS' summer research internship program exposes students to the world of business research. Each intern is matched to a faculty member who has an available research project. Many of our summer interns have gone on to top-tier PhD programs in economics, finance, marketing, and data science after graduation. Learn More Predoctoral Fellows Program The Predoctoral Fellows (PDF) Program is a 2-year predoctoral research program. Under the guidance of CBS faculty, predoctoral fellows play an active role in multiple research projects that are in various stages, from conception through publication. Our alumni have been admitted to PhD programs in top business schools and PhD programs in related disciplines such as economics and sociology. Learn more Columbia Undergraduate Business Scholars The mission of the Columbia Undergraduate Business Scholarship (CUBS) Program is to increase participation of students from underrepresented groups in business research. CUBS are paired with faculty for whom they work as paid research assistants and, in the process, develop basic research and data-analytics skills, and gain insight into careers in academia. Learn More Part-time Research Assistants If you are a current Columbia or Barnard student and wish to get involved in research during the academic year or the summer, please check for open part-time research positions on the Columbia Handshake job search portal and look for our postings on your departmental listserv. You might also contact the School's Behavioral Research Lab about opportunities. Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels