Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Earn A Certificate Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About At Columbia Business School Executive Education, we acknowledge the investment executives make in their professional development with a completely customizable certificate. Certificate holders receive select Columbia Business School alumni benefits and join a powerful, global network of over 47,000 alumni. Earn your Certificate in Business Excellence by earning 18 certificate credits over four years. (Please note: While we are not able to offer in-person programming due to the COVID-19 Pandemic, the duration to complete the programming has been extended to five years.) Create your customized learning path, assembling programs in any or all categories (comprehensive management, finance, leadership, marketing, social enterprise, or strategy) and formats (in person, live online, or online) that will best help you meet your professional development goals. When you earn 18 certificate credits, you will receive the following select Columbia Business School alumni benefits: A 25 percent tuition benefit for you and up to four colleagues each year for full-price Executive Education in-person programs lasting up to seven days and all full-price online programs Invitations to alumni events and programs around the world Global networking opportunities Lifetime Columbia Business School forwarding email address Access to Columbia Business School Alumni Career Services resources, including access to unique career content, a job board, an online networking platform, the alumni directory, and more. Download the full list of resources. Subscription to the Columbia Business alumni publication Eligibility to join a Columbia Business School alumni club. View the alumni clubs list. Contact our Learning Solutions specialists at +1 212-854-3395 or execed@gsb.columbia.edu to discuss your specific development goals or visit our program finder to map your path to your Certificate in Business Excellence. * Please note that the Professional Certificate in Corporate Finance with edX does not grant certificate credits. Download Brochure Download the brochure to learn more about the Certificate in Business Excellence. Download CIBE Brochure You will receive emails containing program news, events, and thought leadership from Columbia Business School Executive Education. You may opt out at any time. Required fields are indicated by an asterisk. Submit Download brochure “As a private business, locally owned and operated competing against major multi-national corporations with unlimited resources you have to really dig deep to look for your competitive advantages. I consider the CIBE and the journey I took to complete as one such competitive advantage. We continue to maintain and more importantly flourish despite the intense competition and the skills learned through my involvement with CIBE are an important part of our organization’s success. “Earning the CIBE is a realistic goal, really, with just one week per year for four years to obtain. This works fantastically well for candidates who strive for professional development but have limited time to re-enter business school on a full or part-time basis. “A certificate in business excellence, keen business knowledge, a network of international peers, and alumni status – I have made the right decision and the benefits personally and professionally are evident.” Dean BlanchardPresident at Robinson's Pharmacy Group “Columbia is a leading institute of higher learning and has a long history of driving thought leadership and business excellence. I wanted the best education and experience available and I felt that Columbia Business School’s program was the epitome of executive education on every front. I decided to earn Columbia’s Certificate in Business Excellence because of the added benefits that this unique certificate program offers beyond the education programs. Having this certificate will add a lifetime of value to my resume and open up a new network through the alumni benefits that it makes available.” Marshall MylerDirector, Managed Services Tools and Infrastructure at Hewlett Packard “I think it's always great to get recognition for something. I was looking at a number of other executive education style courses across Australia, the United States, and Canada. There’s not much recognition of something that actually is very beneficial to people, that definitely stretches thinking, and gives us new tools to use. With the program I took, we touched on a lot of the areas that are critical to an MBA. To walk away from my experience with the CIBE is a recognition of that.” Alex HarperGeneral Manager at Digestion Support Australia “The certificate helps me reach my highest potential in my career and life. It enhances my abilities as a leader, broadens my outlook, enhances my confidence and credibility, and expands my network. The granting of alumni benefits means that I can continue to network and grow. I am able to attend events all over the world, which will give me access to cutting-edge, innovative thinking. The certificate itself offers a seal of approval for the investment I have made in myself. Columbia offers an exceptional diversity of programs across a range of disciplines that meet my career goals and the outstanding reputation of Columbia Business School meant that there was never any doubt that the certificate would enhance my standing in the business community.” James ShaplandInvestor and CEO 1 / 4 Certificate Holder Numbers Industries Represented Among Certificate Holders Industry % Banking and Financial Services 26 Manufacturing 15 Government 14 Chemical / Energy / Resources 12 Education 7 Healthcare 7 Other 19 , ckeditor FAQ Expand Certification I’m interested in the Certificate in Business Excellence (CIBE), how do I get started? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, you’ll be able to customize a unique learning experience by selecting programs that best interest you and are most suited for your needs. Any completed program, regardless of format (live online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Which programs qualify for the CIBE? Any completed executive education program, regardless of format (live-online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Partner programs will also count towards the certificate. What programs are considered partner programs? Executive education programs developed and administered with our educational partners, bring the best of our combined knowledge, thought leadership, resources, and expertise. Kindly find a list of our partners here on our partnership page. What are the costs of the certificate? There’s no set cost associated with the certificate path since you’re able to customize your learning journey with in-person and online programs (price will vary depending on the program type and length). Are there any tuition assistance or scholarships? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, we offer non-degree and non-credit-based professional development programs to the global business community. As our programs are non-degree and non-credit, they do not qualify for financial aid. How are CIBE credits determined? Credits for a program are determined by the program duration and total learning hours. Where do I find information on the credit value for a program? You will find this information on each program page. Credits range from 0.5 credits – 26 credits per program. How do I get enrolled in the CIBE? Your certificate journey will start with your first program, and you have 4 years to complete your CIBE. You may register for any of our executive education programs on each program page. You may enroll using the “Enroll Now” button, and the application process should take 5-10 minutes. How do I receive credits? You are required to fully attend a program and complete all necessary coursework in order to receive CIBE credits. Credits are only awarded after you complete a program. How do I check the status of my Certificate completion? Kindly reach out to a Learning Solutions representative for any questions on the status of your CIBE credit count. Do CIBE credits expire? Credits are only valid for four years (Please note: While we are not able to offer in-person programming due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the duration to complete the programming has been extended to five years.). If you have not completed your CIBE within four years, we will only count non-expired credits towards your CIBE credit total. Does the Certificate in Business Excellence expire? Your Certificate in Business Excellence does not expire. Once you become a certificate recipient, you will join the greater alumni community at Columbia Business School. I’ve reached 18 CIBE credits, what’s next? Congratulations! You should receive a digital copy of your certificate at the end of your program. If you do not receive a copy from your program manager, kindly contact your Learning Solutions representative or your program manager for next steps. Will I receive a physical certificate? Yes, all certificate recipients will receive a physical plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an online or live online program, you will receive a plaque in the mail. We will ask for you to provide us with your preferred mailing address and our vendor will ship the plaque directly to you. We kindly ask for your patience as the processing time takes a few weeks. Please contact your program manager for the status of your plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an in-person program, you will receive a plaque at the end of the program. How do I get access to my alumni benefits? Once you complete your CIBE, we kindly ask for your patience as we process your alumni credentials. The processing time can take anywhere from 8 to 10 weeks long. Can I refer colleagues to the Certificate in Business Excellence? If you are a certificate holder, you may sponsor up to four colleagues each year for full-price in-person programs lasting up to seven days and all full-price online programs. Can I add the Certificate in Business Excellence to LinkedIn? Yes! We will provide you with instructions on how to add your certificate to your LinkedIn profile after you become a Certificate recipient. Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements