About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom Directory The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise » Research » Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics list-style-none About Courses Experiential Learning Social Ventures Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Initiatives Newsroom About the Event The workshop is of primary interest to Northeast scholars involved in research in energy policy and environmental economics. A set of papers will be presented on a variety of topics reflecting the latest advances in energy and environmental economics. The workshop will feature plenary sessions with papers with individual presentations, a discussant, and audience discussion. In addition, we will include a few short presentations by graduate students, giving an opportunity to sketch out an area of their current research and highlight some central findings. The conference organizers are Geoffrey Heal (Columbia), Erin Mansur (Dartmouth), Kenneth Gillingham (Yale), Shanjun Li (Cornell) and Joe Aldy (Harvard). This workshop is the latest in a series of occasional Northeast Workshops, most recently held at Yale, Cornell and Dartmouth. If you have questions, please reach out to Geoffrey Heal at [email protected]. Agenda Thursday, May 17, 2018 Time Event 8:30–9:00 a.m. Breakfast and registration 9:00–10:00 a.m. Do Pilot Projects Alter Non-Participant Behavior? Evidence From A Green Building Standard By Christopher J. Blackburn, Mallory E. Flowers, Daniel C. Matisoff, and Juan Moreno-Cruz Discussant: Wolfram Schlenker 10:00–11:00 a.m. Payments For Environmental Services Supported Social Capital While Increasing Land Management By Jennifer M. Alix-Garcia, Katharine R.E. Sims, Victor Hugo Orozco Olvera, Laura Costica, Jorge David Fernandez Medina, and Sofía Romo Monroy Discussant: Richard Sweeney 11:00–11:30 a.m. Break 11:30 a.m.–12:00 p.m. Environmental Policy, Full-Employment Models, and Employment: A Critical Analysis By Marc A. C. Hafstead, Roberton C. Williams III, and Yunguang Chen 12:00–12:30 p.m. Demanding Innovation: The Impact of Consumer Subsidies on Solar Panel Production Costs By Todd Gerarden 12:30–1:30 p.m. Lunch 1:30–2:30 p.m. Crowding In with Joint Production of a Public Good: Evidence from Volunteerism in National Parks By Matthew J. Kotchen and Katherine Wagner Discussant: Scott Barrett 2:30–3:00 p.m. Coal Demand, Market Forces, and US Coal Mine Closures By Brett Jordan, Ian Lange, and Joshua Linn 3:00–3:30 p.m. General Bayesian Learning in Dynamic Stochastic Models: Estimating the Value of Science Policy By Ivan Rudik, Maxwell Rosenthal, and Derek Lemoine 3:30–4:00 p.m. Break 4:00–4:30 p.m. The Environmental And Distributional Consequences Of Emissions Markets: Evidence From The Clean Air Interstate Rule By Mehdi Benatiya Andaloussi and Elisabeth Thuestad Isaksen 4:30–5:00 p.m. International Environmental Agreements and Directed Technological Change: Evidence from the Ozone Regime By Eugenie Dugoua 6:30 p.m. Dinner Friday, May 18, 2018 Time Event 8:00–8:30 a.m. Breakfast and registration 8:30–9:30 a.m. Pollution Offshoring and Infant Health: The Case of Battery Recycling By Shinsuke Tanaka, Kensuke Teshima, and Eric Verhoogen Discussant: Cynthia Lin Lawell 9:30–10:30 a.m. Short- and Long-Run Impacts of Environmental Regulations on Firm Productivity: Evidence from the U.S. Electricity Sector, 1938-1999 By Karen Clay, Akshaya Jha, Joshua Lewis, and Edson Severnini Discussant: Becka Brolinson 10:30–11:00 a.m. Variances: Regulatory Flexibility for Good or for Ill By Dietrich Earnhart, Sarah Jacobson, Yusuke Kuwayama, and Richard Woodward 11:00–11:15 a.m. Break 11:15–11:45 a.m. A Structural Econometric Model of the Dynamic Game Between Petroleum Producers in the World Petroleum Market Khaled H. Kheiravar, C.-Y. Cynthia Lin Lawell, and Amy Myers Jaffe 11:45 a.m.–12:15 p.m. Adoption of Hybrid Corn Reduced Heat Sensitivity and Increased Drought Tolerance By Claire Palandri, David Popp, and Wolfram Schlenker 12:15–1:00 p.m. Lunch 1:00–2:00 p.m. Coercive Trade Agreements for Supplying Public Goods By Astrid Dannenberg and Scott Barrett Discussant: Joe Aldy 2:00–2:30 p.m. The Electric Gini: Income Redistribution through Energy Prices By Arik Levinson and Emilson Silva 2:30–3:00 p.m. Network Externality and Subsidy Structure in Two-Sided Markets: Evidence from Electric Vehicle Incentives Katalin Springel 3:00–3:15 p.m. Break 3:15–3:45 p.m. Individual Discount Rates During the Great Depression: Evidence from Firewood Prices in Portland, Oregon By Nicholas Z. Muller 3:45–4:15 p.m. The Effects of Climate on Leisure Demand: Evidence from North America By Nathan W. Chan and Casey J. Wichman Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top