About The Lang Leadership Team Lang Center Advisory Board and Lang Fund Board Faculty Advisory Board Curriculum Students Launch Lang Coach Office Hours Entrepreneurship Research Resources Summer Startup Track Columbia Technology Founder’s Track (CTech) Columbia Build Lab Entrepreneurial Greenhouse Program Lang Fund Invest Columbia Venture Fellows Summer Fellowship Program: VC Pitchbook Access Lang Coach Office Hours Join Summer Fellowship Program: Startups Events and Networking Lang Talks CBS Startups Week Fall Startup Showcase CBS Startup Alley at TechDay Alumni Networking Night Alumni Ideas Ideas in Entrepreneurship & Innovation Faculty Research PhD Fellowship Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories ===> CBS Academic Calendar ===> CAMPUS-WIDE ENTREPRENEURSHIP CALENDAR The Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center About The Lang Leadership Team Lang Center Advisory Board and Lang Fund Board Faculty Advisory Board Curriculum Students Launch Lang Coach Office Hours Entrepreneurship Research Resources Summer Startup Track Columbia Technology Founder’s Track (CTech) Columbia Build Lab Entrepreneurial Greenhouse Program Lang Fund Invest Columbia Venture Fellows Summer Fellowship Program: VC Pitchbook Access Lang Coach Office Hours Join Summer Fellowship Program: Startups Events and Networking Lang Talks CBS Startups Week Fall Startup Showcase CBS Startup Alley at TechDay Alumni Networking Night Alumni Ideas Ideas in Entrepreneurship & Innovation Faculty Research PhD Fellowship Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories The Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center » Lang Fund Lang Fund list-style-none About Curriculum Students Launch Lang Coach Office Hours Entrepreneurship Research Resources Summer Startup Track Columbia Technology Founder’s Track (CTech) Columbia Build Lab Entrepreneurial Greenhouse Program Lang Fund Invest Join Events and Networking Alumni Ideas Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories About Alumni Selection Cycle- Dates & Eligibility Student Selection Cycle - Dates & Eligibility Conditions of Investment For the first time in its 20+ year history, The Lang Fund opened a selection process for early-stage, alumni-founded startups on January 5th, 2021. To receive updates on important dates, subscribe to our Alumni Newsletter. For questions, contact [email protected]. About the Lang Entrepreneurial Initiative Fund Established in 1996 with a $1 million gift from Eugene M. Lang, MS '40, the Eugene M. Lang Entrepreneurial Initiative Fund ("The Lang Fund") fosters an entrepreneurial environment at Columbia Business School by providing early-stage investing opportunities to qualifying student and alumni ventures. It also allows the School to share in the success of funded ventures through negotiated equity or other participation. Learn about the latest Lang Fund Recipients. Back to Top Alumni Selection Cycle - Dates & Eligibility Please check back for updates on the next selection cycle. Eligibility & Requirements The Lang Fund is looking for alumni ventures that fit the following criteria: Pre-seed or seed stage companies, ideally post-revenue with 6 months of customer data At least one member of the founding team must be a CBS alum The founding team must all be working full-time on their venture The venture must be raising, or looking to raise a round within the next 12 months The Lang Fund is geographically and sector agnostic Back to Top Student Selection Cycle - Dates & Eligibility 4/6/22 – Selected Ventures Pitch to Screening Committee 5/16/22 – Final Round Pitch, investment decisions are made by Lang Fund Investment Committee Dates subject to change. Eligibility & Requirements Graduating students who intend to work on their ventures full-time after graduation are eligible to apply for funding from the Lang Fund Board. In order to apply you must be a Columbia Business School student graduating in 2022. The entry requirements include: Completed application highlighting venture accomplishments and intent to work on venture full-time Five to seven-slide deck outlining your venture Participation in due diligence process Note that while applications are accepted from ventures of all stages, preference may be given to companies that have shown initial traction and/or other types of market validation. Back to Top Conditions of Investment Lang Fund winners typically are awarded a $25,000-50,000 commitment to invest, to be executed for up to one year, as part of an existing capital fundraise. The format of the investment is to be on the exact same terms as existing investors in the same round, commonly taking the form a SAFE, convertible note, or preferred stock investment, subject to an additional side-letter addressing Columbia-specific program requirements. The Lang Fund Board retains sole discretion for deciding which businesses it will fund each year and may decide in a given year to forgo the funding of any projects if none of the ventures presented meet its investment criteria. Questions? Contact [email protected]. Sidebar Content Like on Facebook Follow on Twitter Connect on LinkedIn [email protected] Course Planner startups.columbia.edu Alumni Newsletter Sign up for our Alumni Newsletter for news and updates about our Lang programs, events, and resources. Subscribe to Alumni Newsletter Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top