About Research & Projects Courses Blockchain Events BookIQ TalkIQ Contact Advanced Projects and Applied Research in Fintech About Research & Projects Courses Blockchain Events BookIQ TalkIQ Contact The Future of Financial Services Advanced Projects and Applied Research in Fintech ("APAR") is a multidisciplinary initiative at the intersection of business and engineering. Its two primary goals are: to foster and undertake leading-edge research in the financial services realm empowered by deep tech and data analytics, and to explore the development of novel technological solutions and oversee their industry implementation for optimal impact on consumers, society, and industry. Intrigued? Learn more about us. New! Launching TalkIQ: we launched our TalkIQ in Spring 2022 (see event flyer), a series of virtual fireside chats with women thought-leaders and renowned tech investors, operators, and entrepreneurs. Stay tuned for our Fall 2022 prgramming. RESEARCH UPDATE: our latest paper, "Explainable AI for Psychological Profiling from Digital Footprints: A Case Study of Big Five Personality Predictions from Spending Data" has been published (Jan 4, 2022). Columbia Business School Keywords & Activities COVID-19, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, NLP, Blockchain, Insurance, Wealth Management, Payments, Decentralized Finance (DeFi), Edge Computing & Inline Analytics, Cybersecurity, Smart Contracts, Capital Markets and Microstructure, Protocol Tokens, ATS, Modular/Micro Insurance, Computational Finance & Economics, Deep Tech, Executive Education Media Inquiries If you are a member of the media, we would be delighted to help you in your journalistic endeavors. We can offer leads, ideas, sources, data, research, commentary, and more. Please contact our Executive Director R.A. Farrokhnia and/or the Public Relations Team at Columbia Business School. Sponsored Projects APAR works selectively with financial services firms on sponsored projects and research, with varying levels of complexity and originality (proprietary or open-source). If you and your organization are interested in learning more or would like to discuss a collaborative sponsored project, please contact us at [email protected]. Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top