About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom Directory The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise » Experiential Learning » Student Papers Student Papers list-style-none About Courses Experiential Learning Careers Student Clubs Consulting Projects Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Research Connections Initiatives Newsroom Columbia MBA students explore a broad range of topics, industries, and organizations during their business school experience. Papers typically form part of the assessment process for course credit, and allow students to consider issues of practical and theoretical significance to business, nonprofit, and public sector organizations. In the process of writing these papers, students have an opportunity to reflect more deeply on business-related issues that affect organizations, local communities, and the global market place. Papers also provide a foundation for exploration of topics that are related to career paths and/or broader policy questions of interest. The selection of papers below reflect a diversity of interests and views that MBA students have expressed as part of course work, for the Chazen Web Journal of International Business and for the Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Paper Awards. The opinions and analyses in these papers are solely those of the authors. Business and Society The Low Income Housing Tax Credit: Aligning the interests of private investors and affordable housing developers by Ariel Behr ’05. Driving Change from Within: The Power and Necessity of Local Business Standards Activism by Gravette D. Brown ’05. Cell Phones and Rural Africa by Mark Pedersen ’07. Trends in Corporate Citizenship Reporting: A Look at America’s Largest Companies by Amanda Foley ’05. Beyond Microfinance: Why we need to support start-up small businesses in the developing world by Ben Powell ’05. Mitigation Banking: A Preferable Solution to Prosecution by Malik Ashiru ’05. An Assessment of the Colgate-Palmolive Company Sustainability Report by Solange Vigano ’05. Genetically Modified Organisms by Rachael M. Strieter ’06. Corporate Responsibility and Healthy Eating by John Bond ’05. Corporate Social Responsibility in Action: The Effects of the Merger Between Ben & Jerry's and Unilever by Gabrielle Bolton ’05 and Tamar Arnowitz ’05. Assisting Employees & Lowering Costs: Corporate America Takes on Health Care through Disease Management Programs by Bethany Hale ’06. The Equator Principles and the Influence of NGOs by Stephanie Sand ’05. Evaluation of Merck Coporate Social Responsibility by Sean Bell ’05. American Apparel and the Ethical Clothing Movement by Jeremy Fain ’05. Fair Trade and Business: A Profitable Combination by Rachel Lawson ’05. Exxon Valdez and Its Impact on Corporate Social Responsibility by Julia Kuik ’05. The Global Forest Products Company: A South-African Socially and Environmentally Sustainable Portfolio Company of a US Private Equity Group by Hugues Lavandier ’05. Ecotourism: Is it really doing well by doing good? by Dana Krieger ’05. Community Investing: Is 1% Enough? by Ben Clausen ’05. Solar Power in the U.S.: an environmental apotheosis, but will the economics every make sense? by Robert Bowne ’05. SoNoBay: A Fair Trade Internet Marketplace by Sebastien Morel ’05 and Kalle Greven ’05. The Oil Industry and Corporate Social Responsibility in Africa by Matthew Hochbrueckner ’06. Information Problems and Social Responsibility by Mark Wieser ’05. McDonald's & The Environment by Vincent Lim ’05. Using Corporate Philanthropy to Maximize Stakeholder Value: The Role of Corporate Contributions in CSR by Carrie Braddock ’06. General Electrics Eco-magination at Work by Phillipa M. Johnson ’05. An Analysis of Wal-Mart's Non-market Environment and its Effect on Potential Growth in the U.S. by Jenna Wimberly ’05. Modern Political Economy The American Disability Insurance Program: Growth Trends and Solutions for Sustainability by Beth Mitchell '13 Women in WWII: How Women’s Entry into the Public Sphere Helped Win the War and Influence Gender Workplace Discourse by Mimi Hoesley '13 Can the Social Entrepreneur Save Schumpeter’s Capitalism? by Sara Neff ’10 Private Foundations: Payout and Perpetuity by Oliver Bareau ’05. Who should Microfinance help: the 'poor' or the 'poorest of the poor'? by Thaddeus Underwood ’05. The Value of a Good Image: How Corporate Social Responsibility practices build brands by Marcela Pallais ’06. Is the Swedish Welfare State Sustainable? by Eva Paredes Montejo ’05. The Enduring American Hegemon by Carlo Perry ’05. Nero's Fiddle: Historical and Theoretical Aspects of Public Funding of the Arts by Shira Sue Carmi ’05. Searching for a New Consensus: The Post-Washington Consensus Era by Jake Keaveny ’05. An evolving view of the economic role of the State - Political economy ramifications and implications by Derrick Wan ’06. When Foreign Direct Investment Unintentionally Harms Economic Development by Benjamin Vishnu Mandell ’05. Chazen Web Journal of International Business Enterprising India: Profits and the Poor By Dimitra DeFotis ’08 Rwanda: Efforts Toward a Private-Sector Economy By Lauren Weber ’07 Exploring Ecotourism in Ecuador By Lucia Darino ’06 Corporate Social Responsibility: An Emerging Form of Risk Management in Europe By Stephanie Sewell King ’05, Dorit Matthews ’05, Marie Wiltz MIA’05 Grameen Bank: Taking Capitalism to the Poor By Schuyler Roach Heuer ’04, Raji Kalra ’04, Evaristus Mainsah ’04, and Qiulin Zhang, MPA’04 Working from the Heart: An Exploration of What Propels 12 Quality Social Entrepreneurs By Helena Plater-Zyberk ’06 At The End Of The Beginning: The Formalization Of Property Rights In Emerging Markets By J. Michael Graglia ’02 Sidebar Content Sign Up for Newsletter Download Brochure Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top