Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Directions Hotels Contact Our Office Other Career Offices Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Training at the Very Center of Business Student Body at a Glance Entrepreneurial-Minded Employment Reports Contact Us Contact Recruiting Columbia Business School Students Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Directions Hotels Contact Our Office Other Career Offices Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Training at the Very Center of Business Student Body at a Glance Entrepreneurial-Minded Employment Reports Contact Us Recruiting Columbia Business School Students » How Do I Recruit? » International Hiring and STEM Designation International Hiring and STEM Designation list-style-none Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Employment Reports Contact Us Hiring International MBAs: A Guide for US Employers Columbia Business School’s commitment to a global perspective is reflected in its ability to attract the best international talent to campus. Students currently enrolled have experienced more than 50 different international markets and speak the languages of many more. Over 40 percent of the graduating class holds a non-US passport. Employers continue to seek the value of the Columbia MBA by hiring both non-US and American students who have been immersed in the international marketplace by living, studying, and working across territories and cultures. With this exposure to many markets, international and domestic Columbia Business School MBAs are of particular value to employers dealing with the nuances of the global marketplace. Although not intended to replace specialized, legal advice from an immigration attorney, we hope this guide provides a clearer overview of the recruitment options available to your firm as you seek to benefit from this international perspective. Recruiting Process for International Students in the USA International students at Columbia Business School typically hold F-1 (foreign student) or J-1 (exchange visitor student) visas. Both F-1 and J-1 visas allow students to work in the United States before and after graduation with minimal effort and investment by the hiring company. There are a number of other work visas available to foreign nationals, including the H1-B visa. In addition, visas are available to citizens of a number of countries that have special agreements with the US government. Advantages of these special agreements can include lower processing fees, no quotas, and faster processing times. Working with the various visa options may seem complex, but the Career Management Center team is here to help employers navigate the process. Jump to: F-1 Student Visa | J-1 Student Visa | H1-B Visa | Other Visa Options F-1 (Foreign Student) Visa The hiring process for F-1 interns is quick, free, and easy for employers. Students with F-1 status can work for the summer and/or during select academic semesters through Curricular Practical Training (CPT), which is processed and issued for free by Columbia University’s International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO). All employers need to do is to extend an offer and provide a letter stating the name of their company, their work site address, and the intern’s dates of employment. For full-time positions, F-1 students have access to up to 12 months of work authorization directly related to their major area of study through Optional Practical Training (OPT). OPT requires no effort from employers as no full-time job offer is necessary when a student submits an OPT application. While in OPT status, the graduate can transition to another visa type, such as H1-B. Back to top J-1 (Exchange Visitor Student) Visa Employers do not have to file any forms or pay fees on behalf of students with J-1 status, as this group has access to up to 18 months of work authorization through the University’s academic training program. This authorization can be granted for employment before or after completion of the student’s program of study and allows a student to apply knowledge obtained in an academic program to a practical work experience. The employment must be directly related to the student’s field of study. Academic training authorization is granted at no cost by Columbia University’s International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO). This process is free and straightforward for employers, and requires a letter from the hiring employer stating the employer’s name, supervisor’s name, work site address, the student’s dates of employment, position description, and salary. The ISSO will work with employers to ensure the academic training request relates to the student’s program of study. Back to top H1-B Visa The H1-B is an employer-sponsored temporary work visa for foreign nationals employed in a “specialty occupation,” which includes any position that requires an MBA. In most cases an H1-B provides up to six years of work authorization. There is a limit to the number of H1-B visas granted annually. The H1-B visa process has several steps as listed on the US Citizenship and Immigration Services website (www.uscis.gov). Since this is a temporary work visa, employers are not required to document or prove that a citizen from another country will not take a job from a qualified American. Back to top Other Visa Options By special agreement with the US government, citizens of the following countries have access to additional work visa options: Canada: TN-1 Visa Mexico: TN-1 Visa Australia: E-3 Visa Chile: H-1B1 Visa Singapore: H-1B1 Visa Back to top STEM Designation Columbia Business School’s MBA program is now STEM-designated. This is effective immediately for all MBA and EMBA students who graduated in May 2019 and later. This change is important. The STEM-designated degree affords international students – roughly 40 percent of our MBA population – the opportunity to work in the U.S. for up to three years under an extended Optional Practical Training (OPT) work permit. Moreover, with technology and data analytics critically affecting all aspects of business – everything from how we invest and advertise to how new innovations in the fields of transportation, healthcare, communication, artificial intelligence, energy and more are brought to market – the knowledge and skills that MBAs need to thrive in today's marketplace have changed. The formal STEM designation is evidence of our commitment to providing these types of knowledge and skills to our graduates. It recognizes the many strides our faculty have made to infuse technology, data science and analytics lessons more robustly throughout our curriculum; a trend that will continue in the near future. Back to top Questions? We hope that this has helped clarify a process that is often confusing and fraught with misconceptions. We look forward to supporting you as you hire international and domestic Columbia MBAs across markets. Please reach out to Michael De Lucia, director of international and MS career management or Vyju Manian, associate director, for additional information. Back to top Sidebar Content Post a Job Log Into COIN Make a Gift Have a Question? Just contact us. Related Content 2022-2023 Recruiter's Guide Full-Time Recruiting Policies Internship Recruiting Policies Corporate Presentation Policies Directions to Campus Full-Time MBA Recruiting Target full-time students for summer internships and full-time opportunities. Download Guide → Experienced-Level Recruiting Target a diverse group of professionals with 5-10 years of experience or more. Download Guide → Masters of Science Recruiting Connect with students who are focused on Financial Economics, Marketing or Accounting and Fundamental Analysis. Download Guide → International Student Recruiting Target students from abroad with diverse backgrounds. Download Guide → skinny-block Quick Links Post a Job → Login to COIN → Order Resume Books → Contact Us → Other Columbia Career Offices → skinny-block Recruiting Calendars Full-Time → Internship → three-block Campus Map and Directions Columbia Business School is located on the University’s Manhattanville campus on W 130th St between Broadway and Riverside Drive. Employment Report 2021 2021 Employment Report Learn more about the diverse career paths of our MBA students. Download Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top