About The Lang Leadership Team Lang Center Advisory Board and Lang Fund Board Faculty Advisory Board Curriculum Students Launch Lang Coach Office Hours Entrepreneurship Research Resources Summer Startup Track Columbia Technology Founder’s Track (CTech) Columbia Build Lab Entrepreneurial Greenhouse Program Lang Fund Invest Columbia Venture Fellows Summer Fellowship Program: VC Pitchbook Access Lang Coach Office Hours Join Summer Fellowship Program: Startups Events and Networking Lang Talks CBS Startups Week Fall Startup Showcase CBS Startup Alley at TechDay Alumni Networking Night Alumni Ideas Ideas in Entrepreneurship & Innovation Faculty Research PhD Fellowship Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories ===> CBS Academic Calendar ===> CAMPUS-WIDE ENTREPRENEURSHIP CALENDAR The Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center About The Lang Leadership Team Lang Center Advisory Board and Lang Fund Board Faculty Advisory Board Curriculum Students Launch Lang Coach Office Hours Entrepreneurship Research Resources Summer Startup Track Columbia Technology Founder’s Track (CTech) Columbia Build Lab Entrepreneurial Greenhouse Program Lang Fund Invest Columbia Venture Fellows Summer Fellowship Program: VC Pitchbook Access Lang Coach Office Hours Join Summer Fellowship Program: Startups Events and Networking Lang Talks CBS Startups Week Fall Startup Showcase CBS Startup Alley at TechDay Alumni Networking Night Alumni Ideas Ideas in Entrepreneurship & Innovation Faculty Research PhD Fellowship Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories The Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center » Programs » Summer Startup Track Summer Startup Track list-style-none About Curriculum Students Launch Lang Coach Office Hours Entrepreneurship Research Resources Summer Startup Track Columbia Technology Founder’s Track (CTech) Columbia Build Lab Entrepreneurial Greenhouse Program Lang Fund Invest Join Events and Networking Alumni Ideas Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories About Important Dates Eligibility & Program Description Apply Grant Process and Closing Pitch and Grant Awarding Event About the Summer Startup Track Summer Startup Track (SST) fosters a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship for rising second-year Columbia Business School students who are dedicated to advancing their ventures over the summer. The program provides tailored advisory, a network of peers, talks with industry leaders, and a pitch competition for a limited number of $5k - $10k (TBD) grants (taxable*) at the end of the summer. See the Summer 2021 Grant Winners NOTE: While we hope to hold some in-person events, all programming for SST 2022 will be accessible virtually. There is no requirement for participants to be based in the NYC area. Back to Top Important Dates Summer Startup Track program dates: June 2 through August 5 Grant pitch date: Friday, Aug 5 - Two sessions: 11am-1pm and 5pm-7pm ET (tentative). Students can request a specific time frame for their pitch. Back to Top Eligibility & Program Description The primary applicant on the team must be a rising second-year student who is: Enrolled in CBS through fall 2022, including J-Term, EMBA, and MS students Dedicated to advancing their startup over the summer Note that students on leave of absence are not eligible SST is designed to accommodate full-time or part-time work/internships and summer coursework. Startups of all stages are welcome to apply. One application per team. Solo founders welcome. Preference is given to founders who have not been in the program previously. Students may apply to the Full-time or Part-time Track. Only students that fulfill all requirements for the Full-time Track may pitch for a grant at the end of the program. Part-time Track students have fewer requirements but must maintain a minimum amount of participation to remain part of the community. Please review the following carefully before applying. Full-time Track requirements for eligibility to pitch: Attendance of the kick-off event Attendance of at least 5 of the Speaker Series events (more info below) Attendance of at least 3 one-to-one advisory meetings Attendance of at least 3 peer group meetings Submission of weekly status reports to the Lang Center Participation in the closing event pitch for grant awards Part-time Track requirements: Attendance of the kick-off event Attendance of at least 4 of the weekly Speaker Series events (details below) Attendance of 1 one-to-one advisory meeting Peer groups are optional and can be formed upon request Ineligible to pitch for grants, although attendance of the closing event is encouraged SST Speaker Series The program will feature weekly talks from successful entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, faculty, and others within the entrepreneurial ecosystem. All events will be accessible virtually this year, and will accommodate work/class schedules as much as possible. Example topics include: Customer Discovery Financial Modeling Startup Legal 101 Pitch Deck Formation How to Raise Capital Growth Hacking Tools for Startups Back to Top Apply We are no longer taking applications. Back to Top Grant Process and Closing Pitch and Grant Awarding Event Students who meet all criteria are eligible to apply for a grant at the end of the program. Please note these grants are taxable.* Grant eligibility requirements: Fulfillment of requirements for the Full-time Track program Recommendation from a Summer Startup Track advisor Personal statement outlining your progress over the summer and intent for using these funds to further venture beyond SST program (up to two pages) Presentation at the closing pitch event. Every member of the venture team should take part in the presentation to the extent possible. All materials outlined above will be due one week in advance of the closing pitch event. *Any payments (including, but not limited to prizes, awards, non-qualified scholarships, grants, fellowships, stipends, etc.) to U.S. and international students are potentially subject to withholding. Please contact your tax advisor regarding individual tax implications. Each team will have sole responsibility for deciding to which student the check will be made out and how to use the grant proceeds. Questions? Contact [email protected]. Back to Top Sidebar Content Like on Facebook Follow on Twitter Connect on LinkedIn [email protected] Course Planner startups.columbia.edu Alumni Newsletter Sign up for our Alumni Newsletter for news and updates about our Lang programs, events, and resources. Subscribe to Alumni Newsletter Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top