Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Directions Hotels Contact Our Office Other Career Offices Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Training at the Very Center of Business Student Body at a Glance Entrepreneurial-Minded Employment Reports Contact Us Contact Recruiting Columbia Business School Students Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Directions Hotels Contact Our Office Other Career Offices Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Training at the Very Center of Business Student Body at a Glance Entrepreneurial-Minded Employment Reports Contact Us Recruiting Columbia Business School Students » Who Can I Recruit? » Interns Interns list-style-none Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Employment Reports Contact Us For the roughly 550 Full-Time MBA students that start school in August, the summer provides an opportunity to explore a new function or industry of interest. Internships are also valuable to many companies, as they can use this time to assess a student’s fit for full-time employment after graduation. We have about 200 students that start the MBA Program in January. They do not seek internships, since they take classes during the summer term. Companies often visit campus over the summer to meet this group of MBAs. For these students in particular, and increasingly for all students, school-year internships and projects provide connections to employers. Interns can be recruited through job postings, resume book databases or on-campus recruiting. Intern Profile “I was inspired by the class Launching Social Ventures with Ron Gonen '04. From all of the great entrepreneurs he brought in, I saw that so many of the new and exciting ventures that are changing the world have a tech component. It got me excited about pursuing technology to influence social change. That experience led me to an internship at Google, where I fell in love with the culture and the breadth of the company's reach. I'll be returning there to work full-time, likely in the global education group.” —Jenny Tolan '14, Google Sidebar Content Post a Job Log Into COIN Make a Gift Have a Question? Just contact us. Related Content 2022-2023 Recruiter's Guide Full-Time Recruiting Policies Internship Recruiting Policies Corporate Presentation Policies Directions to Campus Full-Time MBA Recruiting Target full-time students for summer internships and full-time opportunities. Download Guide → Experienced-Level Recruiting Target a diverse group of professionals with 5-10 years of experience or more. Download Guide → Masters of Science Recruiting Connect with students who are focused on Financial Economics, Marketing or Accounting and Fundamental Analysis. Download Guide → International Student Recruiting Target students from abroad with diverse backgrounds. Download Guide → skinny-block Quick Links Post a Job → Login to COIN → Order Resume Books → Contact Us → Other Columbia Career Offices → skinny-block Recruiting Calendars Full-Time → Internship → three-block Campus Map and Directions Columbia Business School is located on the University’s Manhattanville campus on W 130th St between Broadway and Riverside Drive. Employment Report 2021 2021 Employment Report Learn more about the diverse career paths of our MBA students. Download Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top