Faculty and Research Faculty Faculty Profiles Faculty Publications Faculty Directory Faculty by Areas of Expertise Faculty Recruitment Faculty Awards Academic Divisions Accounting Decision, Risk, and Operations Economics Division Finance Division Management Marketing Cross-Disciplinary Areas Seminars Accounting Seminars Economics Seminars Finance Seminars Decision, Risk, and Operations Seminars Management Seminars Marketing Seminars Competitive Strategies Seminars Research Leadership Resources Impact Research Archive Centers and Programs CaseWorks Faculty Governance (login) Programs MBA Benefits and Features Academics Student Life Career Support Admissions Financial Aid Connect with CBS Executive MBA Options & Locations Academics Student Life Career Management Admissions Tuition Sponsorship Connect with CBS Doctoral Program Academics Dissertations People Why a Columbia PhD? Admissions Job Market Master of Science Master of Science in Accounting and Fundamental Analysis Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Financial Economics Master of Science in Management Science and Engineering Master of Science in Marketing Science Student Life Executive Education Program Finder Programs for Organizations Download Program Portfolio Earn a Certificate Contact Us Login to My Account Undergraduate Concentration Mendelson Center for Undergraduate Business Initiatives About Benefits Apply Requirements FAQ Student Experiences Faculty Predoctoral Research Opportunities Current Students MBA Students Executive MBA Students EMBA Global Students Doctoral Students Master of Science Students Recently Admitted Students Alumni Ideas and Insights About Us Why Columbia Business School? Mission, Vision, and Values Knowledge Academic Programs Faculty Research Core Curriculum Access New York City Executives in Residence History Resources Meet the Executives Meet the Senior Advisors Upcoming Events Community Clusters & Learning Teams Impact Theory to Practice Innovation Master Classes Master Classes: Industry Partners Executive Education Entrepreneurship History and Future Manhattanville Board The Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Initiative DEI Annual Report 2021 Annual Report - Community Diversity Annual Report - Curriculum and Classroom Inclusion Annual Report - Culture and Climate Community Diversity Curriculum & Classroom Inclusion Culture & Climate Values Statement Standing Committees Resources Newsroom Press Releases School News Media Mentions Contact Media Relations Digital Media Social Media Video Library RSS Feeds Campus Map and Directions Contact Us Careers at Columbia Privacy and Policy Statements Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination Policies Disclosure Requirements for Faculty Privacy Policy Transfer Credit Policy Copyright and Fair Use Gear Store Directory For Staff Recruiters Corporate Give Directory Newsroom For Staff Recruiters Corporate Give Columbia Business School Faculty and Research Faculty Faculty Profiles Faculty Publications Faculty Directory Faculty by Areas of Expertise Faculty Recruitment Faculty Awards Academic Divisions Accounting Decision, Risk, and Operations Economics Division Finance Division Management Marketing Cross-Disciplinary Areas Seminars Accounting Seminars Economics Seminars Finance Seminars Decision, Risk, and Operations Seminars Management Seminars Marketing Seminars Competitive Strategies Seminars Research Leadership Resources Impact Research Archive Centers and Programs CaseWorks Faculty Governance (login) Programs MBA Benefits and Features Academics Student Life Career Support Admissions Financial Aid Connect with CBS Executive MBA Options & Locations Academics Student Life Career Management Admissions Tuition Sponsorship Connect with CBS Doctoral Program Academics Dissertations People Why a Columbia PhD? Admissions Job Market Master of Science Master of Science in Accounting and Fundamental Analysis Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Financial Economics Master of Science in Management Science and Engineering Master of Science in Marketing Science Student Life Executive Education Program Finder Programs for Organizations Download Program Portfolio Earn a Certificate Contact Us Login to My Account Undergraduate Concentration Mendelson Center for Undergraduate Business Initiatives About Benefits Apply Requirements FAQ Student Experiences Faculty Predoctoral Research Opportunities Current Students MBA Students Executive MBA Students EMBA Global Students Doctoral Students Master of Science Students Recently Admitted Students Alumni Ideas and Insights About Us Why Columbia Business School? Mission, Vision, and Values Knowledge Academic Programs Faculty Research Core Curriculum Access New York City Executives in Residence History Resources Meet the Executives Meet the Senior Advisors Upcoming Events Community Clusters & Learning Teams Impact Theory to Practice Innovation Master Classes Master Classes: Industry Partners Executive Education Entrepreneurship History and Future Manhattanville Board The Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Initiative DEI Annual Report 2021 Annual Report - Community Diversity Annual Report - Curriculum and Classroom Inclusion Annual Report - Culture and Climate Community Diversity Curriculum & Classroom Inclusion Culture & Climate Values Statement Standing Committees Resources Newsroom Press Releases School News Media Mentions Contact Media Relations Digital Media Social Media Video Library RSS Feeds Campus Map and Directions Contact Us Careers at Columbia Privacy and Policy Statements Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination Policies Disclosure Requirements for Faculty Privacy Policy Transfer Credit Policy Copyright and Fair Use Gear Store Directory For Staff Recruiters Corporate Give Columbia Business School » About Us » Why Columbia Business School? » Access » Executives in Residence » Meet the Senior Advisors Meet the Senior Advisors Rob Amen Robert M. Amen '73 served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of International Flavors and Fragrances Corp. (IFF) from 2006-2009. Prior to his 3 years at IFF, Mr. Amen was President of International Paper Company, retiring from that post in March 2006. During his 26 years with International Paper, Mr. Amen played a major role in developing the company's international strategy and in transforming the company's operations and business focus. He was named president of International Paper in 2003, having previously served as executive vice president of the company from 2000-2003 and president of International Paper Europe from 1996-2000. Rob is Chairman of the Deming Center Advisory Board at Columbia University. He also serves on the Board of Directors of the Verso Corporation and Balfour Beatty PLC. Mr. Amen has a bachelor's degree in economics from Boston College and a master's degree in business administration from Columbia University. Areas of interest: international business; people development/leadership and emerging markets. John V. Faraci John V. Faraci served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of International Paper from November 1, 2003 to December 31, 2014. He served previously in the positions of president, as well as executive vice president and chief financial officer. He served also as chief executive officer and managing director of Carter Holt Harvey (a former International Paper majority-owned forest products company in New Zealand). John sits on the boards of United Technologies Corp., PPG Industries, Inc., and ConocoPhillips. He is the Chairman of the Board of Trustees for Denison University and National Fish and Wildlife Foundation. He is a member of the American Enterprise Institute and The Council on Foreign Relations. John is also an operating partner with Advent International Global Private Equity. He is a former member of The Grand Teton National Park Foundation and The National Park Foundation. John earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in history and economics from Denison University in Granville, Ohio, and a Master’s degree in business administration from the University of Michigan. Areas of Interest: conservation, environmental business issues, people development, leadership, joint ventures. Ehud Houminer Ehud Houminer serves on Columbia Business School's Board of Overseers and has taught courses in corporate strategy, international strategy, general management and business policy in both the MBA and EMBA Programs at Columbia Business School. He received his BA from the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and his MBA from the Wharton School. Prior to joining the Executives in Residence Program in 1991, Professor Houminer held numerous high-level appointments in Asia, Australia, Europe and North America during his long career with Philip Morris Companies, Inc., including senior corporate vice president for corporate planning and president and CEO of Philip Morris USA. He is a director of Avnet, Inc. (a global distributor of electronics components) and numerous Dreyfus mutual funds. Professor Houminer is chairman of the Business School Board and a trustee of Ben Gurion University. Areas of interest: general management, domestic and international business strategy, and consumer products and manufacturing industries with a global scope. Jack Mitchell Jack Mitchell is Chairman of Mitchell Stores (Mitchells/Richards/ Wilkes/Marios), a three-generation family business that operates men’s and women’s specialty stores in Connecticut, New York, California, Washington and Oregon. After completing a BA at Wesleyan University in 1961 and an MA at the University of California-Berkeley in Chinese History, Jack worked at the New England Institute for Medical Research. He joined the family business, Ed Mitchell, Inc., in 1969, which was founded by his parents and later became Mitchells of Westport. Mitchells went on to acquire Richards of Greenwich, CT, Marshs of Huntington, Long Island, Wilkes Bashford in San Francisco and Palo Alto, CA, and Marios in Portland and Seattle. In 2003, Jack launched a “second career” as an author and speaker, keynoting at events for corporations including Morgan Stanley, Conde Nast, Merrill Lynch, Nike, Starbucks, and Harvard University, addressing audiences with Hug Your Customers/ Hug Your People/Selling the Hug Your Customers Way presentations. Jack has appeared on The NBC Today Show, and Kudlow & Cramer TV show as well as numerous radio interviews and online and print articles. Jack has been quoted in national magazines as a customer service and management leadership expert. In April 2005, INC Magazine listed Jack as one of the 26 Entrepreneurs We Love. Jack shares with his family a number of Community leadership Awards from the Anti-Defamation league, The Menswear Division of UJA-Federation of New York, and Sacred Heart University. Jack is on the Yale Cancer Board and Greenwich Hospital Board of Trustees. Areas of interest: management of family businesses and luxury retail, and customer service. Rob Amen John V. Faraci Ehud Houminer Jack Mitchell Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top