Skip to main content Group 1 COVID-19 Strategy Group 2 Entrepreneurship Economics & Policy Group 3 Media & Tech Social Enterprise Group 4 Leadership Marketing Group 5 Finance Publications Brand Talk Chazen Global Insights Columbia Bizcast Columbia Business Ideas at Work The Lang Letter About Newsroom Marketing The Unexpected Benefits of Being Unexpected Bending the rules can pay off when it comes to raising others’ esteem. Ideas at Work January 23, 2017 Based on research by Silvia Bellezza, F. Gino, and Anat Keinan As human beings, we face tremendous social pressure to conform. While culturally we lionize those who break away from the herd, psychological experiments since the 1950s have shown how readily we cave when faced with the firm opposition of our social peers. The instinct to conform appears to be hardwired. Researchers have found evidence of social conformity in a range of species, from monkeys and humpback whales to cockroaches. Scientists believe that conformity can convey strong evolutionary benefits amongst social animals, like human beings. As a result, behavior outside the norms can face strong social sanction. But sometimes breaking the rules can boost your social standing. In a series of studies, researchers from Columbia Business School and Harvard Business School found that luxury store salespeople attributed higher status and dollar value to casually dressed shoppers, and executives saw unconventionally dressed individuals as more competent. The researchers call this the “red sneaker effect.” Silvia Bellezza, an assistant professor in the marketing division at Columbia Business School and lead author on the study, explains that social capital is like currency, and those who intentionally break the rules appear to be able to afford it. The research also sheds light on how status symbols are changing in a world where more consumers can afford luxury goods. As once-exclusive brands have become accessible to a wider swathe of the population, their effectiveness as signals of elite status has diminished. For brands looking to breakout in the current environment, unconventionality may offer an opportunity. In their paper, Bellezza et al. point anecdotally to high-end consumers’ increasing penchant for “crazy socks.” The authors also indicate the proliferation of high-priced low-end staples, as in the booming luxury athleisure segment, that allow consumers to eschew the traditional symbols of status while still signaling they have the money to acquire them. In order to be effective, status signals must be both visible and costly, Bellezza explains, a fact which, when combined with the human proclivity towards mimicry, may help to explain the longterm instability of markers of prestige. Read the research Silvia Bellezza, F. Gino, Anat Keinan. "The Red Sneakers Effect: Inferring Status and Competence from Signals of Nonconformity." About the researcher Silvia Bellezza Silvia Bellezza is the Gantcher Associate Professor of Business in Marketing at Columbia Business School. Her research focuses on status signaling in consumption. Specifically... Read more. Related articles Related Marketing Blending Purpose and Marketing Strategy: Heather Hopkins Freeland ’01 (VP of Marketing, Lyft) Marketing Beware the Streetlight Effect Marketing How Culture Drives Growth: Bonin Bough, Chief Growth Officer of Triller articles by Topic More in Marketing Marketing Blending Purpose and Marketing Strategy: Heather Hopkins Freeland ’01 (VP of Marketing, Lyft) Evangeline Lew February 11, 2022 At the 2021 Future of Marketing Leadership conference, tech marketing executive Heather Hopkins Freeland ’01 (VP of Marketing, Lyft) joined Columbia MBA student Daniella Levitan ’23 in a fireside chat about brand purpose, leading during a crisis, and advice for future marketing leaders working in the tech industry. Marketing Beware the Streetlight Effect January 12, 2022 Chazen Senior Scholar Oded Netzer sheds light on the big data problem facing marketers and offers a pathway for aligning analytics with a firm’s growth strategy. Marketing How Culture Drives Growth: Bonin Bough, Chief Growth Officer of Triller Evangeline Lew December 14, 2021 From social media to consumer packaged goods, Bonin Bough (Chief Growth Officer, Triller) has overseen the successful growth of countless global brands. At the 2021 Future of Marketing Leadership Conference, Bough shared his insights on how an understanding of culture is key to growth. Make a Gift About Us RSS Feeds Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University 3022 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top