School News From the Dean’s Office In the Media CBS On... Press Releases Contact Us Newsroom School News From the Dean’s Office In the Media CBS On... Press Releases Contact Us Newsroom » News » Columbia Business School Opens at University’s New Manhattanville Campus Columbia Business School Opens at University’s New Manhattanville Campus Subscribe Media Inquiries [email protected] 212-854-2747 Follow Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Subscribe Ideas at Work e-newsletter Chazen Global Insights e-newsletter News on Executive Education News on MBA Programs * Required fields Thank you for your subscription. School News | January 18, 2022 | New State-of-the-Art Learning Facilities Designed to Reimagine the Future of Business Education NEW YORK, NY – Columbia Business School marks the official move to its new home in Manhattanville as it welcomes students for the spring semester. The Manhattanville campus represents Columbia University’s largest expansion in over 100 years and underscores Columbia Business School’s role in reimagining the future of business education. Designed by world-renowned architecture firm Diller Scofidio + Renfro, in collaboration with FXCollaborative, Henry R. Kravis Hall and David Geffen Hall both feature bold designs that bring the fast-paced, high-tech, and highly social character of 21st century business to life. In addition to the new cutting-edge facilities, the campus will also offer the wider community a shared space for civic life. Pedagogical Impact With 492,000 square feet of dynamic and flexible space, Columbia Business School’s new home is nearly double the size of its previous location. Its uniquely designed buildings redefine the traditional business education environment, offering increased opportunities for creativity, collaboration, and communication at every turn. Through technologically advanced classrooms, alternating faculty and student floors, and expanded common areas, the new facilities bolster Columbia Business School’s continuously evolving curriculum, which includes an emphasis on digital transformation, entrepreneurship and innovation, 21st century finance, climate change and sustainability, and the interface between business and society. The new campus will also help to cultivate interdisciplinary relationships for Columbia Business School within Columbia, including with the Lenfest Center for the Arts, the Jerome L. Green Science Center, and the Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute. Community Integration The Manhattanville campus will further connect Columbia Business School with West Harlem community partners, entrepreneurs, and artists; create additional local business opportunities; and offer an expanded space for public life. The 40,000 square-foot public park, as well as new retail spaces—including a café featuring local products—will unite Columbia Business School more closely with the surrounding neighborhood. In addition, with its newly dedicated space on the second floor of the Geffen building, the Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Center will build on its ten-year history of helping local entrepreneurs. “This is a meaningful moment for our University. The opening of the Business School’s new buildings marks the completion of the first phase of a campus plan initiated 20 years ago to create a new future for Columbia,” said Columbia University President Lee C. Bollinger. “These masterfully-designed structures will transform the experience of students who come to Columbia Business School, and the presence of Business School students and faculty will, in turn, transform the Manhattanville campus, bringing into sharp focus the vibrant academic community we have long envisioned." “The opening of our new Manhattanville campus represents a transformative moment in our history as an intellectual center for discourse, discussion, and debate about business and society,” says Costis Maglaras, Dean and David and Lyn Silfen Professor of Business at Columbia Business School. “While the location has changed, our mission remains the same: preparing leaders to face the ever-evolving complexities of the modern business world. Columbia Business School will continue to be a lifelong home for our engaged community of students, faculty, staff, alumni, practitioners, and the broader business community for centuries to come.” Interdisciplinary Education and Collaboration Other notable building details include the addition of The Hub, which houses a modern-day think tank that will bring academic thought leaders together with business leaders and policy makers to explore today’s most pressing issues. By facilitating research and dialogue among scholars, practitioners, and policy makers, The Hub promotes an ongoing exchange of ideas, helping to equip current and future leaders with the tools necessary to combat critical challenges. The issues addressed within The Hub will change every two years, with an initial focus on the intersection of business and society. Sustainability Columbia University’s sustainable design and project plan for Manhattanville has earned the first LEED® ND Platinum certification in New York City, as well as the first Platinum certification for a university campus plan nationally. Columbia Business School’s facilities, which are expected to receive a LEED 3.0 Gold certification, feature industry-leading solutions to curb energy use and reduce overall carbon imprint. The buildings’ designs protect against unwanted glare and solar heat gain, while the cooling and heating systems utilize chilled beam technology for reduced energy consumption and low velocity underfloor distribution. Additionally, materials with high percentages of recycled content, wood sourced from sustainably managed forests, and high efficiency plumbing fixtures all contribute to a more sustainable campus environment. Columbia Business School is the only world-class, Ivy League business school that delivers a learning experience where academic excellence meets with real-time exposure to the pulse of global business. The thought leadership of the School’s faculty and staff members, combined with the accomplishments of its distinguished alumni and position in the center of global business, underscores the fact that the School’s efforts have an immediate, measurable impact on the forces shaping business every day. To learn more about Columbia Business School’s position at the very center of business, please visit www.gsb.columbia.edu. ### About the researcher Costis Maglaras Costis Maglaras is the 16th Dean of Columbia Business School, and the David and Lyn Silfen Professor of Business at Columbia University. Costis received... Read more. Filed Under Leadership Organizations Related Stories Samantha Tweedy and the Black Economic Alliance Foundation: Closing the Racial Wealth Gap – An Investment in Shared Prosperity and the Growth of the American Economy Addressing Affordable Housing and Housing Insecurity – A Conversation at Columbia Business School Best MBA Programs if You Want to Get Poached by Apple or Google Published in Fortune FreshDirect and the New York Common Pantry: A Partnership to Nourish New Yorkers Best 40-Under-40 Business School Professors of 2022 Published in Poets & Quants Related Content Subscribe Ideas at Work e-newsletter Chazen Global Insights e-newsletter News on Executive Education News on MBA Programs * Required fields Thank you for your subscription. Media Inquiries [email protected] 212-854-2747 Follow us on Twitter Circle us on Google+ Columbia Business School YouTube Channel Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top