Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Directions Hotels Contact Our Office Other Career Offices Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Training at the Very Center of Business Student Body at a Glance Entrepreneurial-Minded Employment Reports Contact Us Contact Recruiting Columbia Business School Students Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Directions Hotels Contact Our Office Other Career Offices Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Training at the Very Center of Business Student Body at a Glance Entrepreneurial-Minded Employment Reports Contact Us Recruiting Columbia Business School Students » How Do I Recruit? » Acceptable Interview Practices Acceptable Interview Practices list-style-none Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Employment Reports Contact Us Federal and New York State laws prohibit employers from asking certain types of questions and from using non-job-related information in the selection process. All questions and case analyses should be job related. Statement of Nondiscrimination Columbia Business School is committed to a policy against discrimination based on sex, race, color, religion, age, national origin, marital status, sexual preference/orientation, arrest record, or disability. It is illegal to ask questions that are designed to directly or indirectly elicit information about a candidate’s age, marital status, sexual orientation, race, or ethnicity (including citizenship and national origin), derivation of name, religious affiliation or beliefs, arrest record, or physical disabilities that are not related to the candidate's ability to perform the job. We recognize the right of employers to take into account bona fide occupational qualifications. Complaints concerning inappropriate questions on the part of recruiters will be investigated. Career Management Center facilities are available only to employers whose practices are consistent with this policy. Non-job-related questions should not appear on employment applications. A separate form used only for the purpose of affirmative action tracking may request information about a candidate’s age, race, national origin, and disabilities. Completion of this form is always voluntary. Use of this information for other purposes in the recruitment process is unethical. In addition, taking or requesting photographs as part of the application process is an unacceptable practice. We encourage companies to ask the students through their own application processes the questions that enable them to comply with Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) regulations. Grade Non-Disclosure Columbia Business School students voted to implement a student norm of grade non disclosure. This community norm states that students will not disclosure grades, GPA’s, or transcripts to employers until a student accepts a full-time, post-graduation position with an employer. Students however may continue to disclose receipt of academic honors (e.g., Dean’s List) and membership in honor societies. The students believe that grade non-disclosure has contributed to promoting greater risk-taking, teamwork, experiential learning, and community building in the classroom, resulting in more well-rounded graduates. Hopefully, this leads to better employees, and stronger leaders. While each student maintains the legal right to determine whether or not to disclose his or her grades, the CBS student body chose grade non disclosure as a collective norm to enhance the educational experience at Columbia. Accordingly, as highly valued members of our community, you are asked for continued respect of the CBS student body’s decision by refraining from asking students to disclose grades during the recruiting process until a student has accepted a full-time, post-graduation employment offer from your organization. Sidebar Content Post a Job Log Into COIN Make a Gift Have a Question? Just contact us. Related Content 2022-2023 Recruiter's Guide Full-Time Recruiting Policies Internship Recruiting Policies Corporate Presentation Policies Directions to Campus Full-Time MBA Recruiting Target full-time students for summer internships and full-time opportunities. Download Guide → Experienced-Level Recruiting Target a diverse group of professionals with 5-10 years of experience or more. Download Guide → Masters of Science Recruiting Connect with students who are focused on Financial Economics, Marketing or Accounting and Fundamental Analysis. Download Guide → International Student Recruiting Target students from abroad with diverse backgrounds. Download Guide → skinny-block Quick Links Post a Job → Login to COIN → Order Resume Books → Contact Us → Other Columbia Career Offices → skinny-block Recruiting Calendars Full-Time → Internship → three-block Campus Map and Directions Columbia Business School is located on the University’s Manhattanville campus on W 130th St between Broadway and Riverside Drive. Employment Report 2021 2021 Employment Report Learn more about the diverse career paths of our MBA students. Download Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top