Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Programs for Organizations Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Overview Columbia Business School Executive Education’s custom programs blend scholarly research and practical approaches to address your organization’s specific challenges. We see custom programming as a partnership, collaborating to create an effective experience. Design and Development Each custom program is carefully designed to fulfill your organization’s specific needs. The process is iterative and comprised of four steps: The design and development phase begins with a needs assessment and contextual analysis of the challenges you are facing. The second phase is a collaborative effort among our faculty members, designated representatives from your organization, and the Columbia team. In a highly collaborative, iterative process, the Columbia Business School Executive Education team works with you to co-create custom curricula that meld the best ideas of both our faculty and client stakeholders. Design teams from your organization and Columbia Business School Executive Education then meet to determine the program’s structure which includes content and session structure such as case studies, simulations, and materials. After delivering the program, an evaluation and refinement process takes place in order to make the necessary adjustments for the next iteration. “The change in format from in-person to fully virtual this year was seamless. The Columbia Business School faculty were creative and innovative. Although the learning platform was completely different than prior years, there was no change in participant engagement. In fact, all of our attending physicians were impressed and are excited to continue with the upcoming modules, whether virtual or in-person. We look forward to continuing to work with Columbia Business School.” Alia KochProgram Director at New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center “Participants in this transformative program grew more confident in their management, leadership, and communications skills, better equipped to assume leadership roles in their organization, and empowered to realize their full personal and professional potential. Columbia Business School Executive Education is fulfilling an important mission by shaping a generation of graduates who will help drive continued economic growth in Morocco and Africa.” Hicham El HabtiProvost of University Mohammed VI Polytechnique (UM6P), Morocco 1 / 2 Case Studies Operative Learn how Columbia Business School helped Operative foster leadership capabilities across teams of technical experts for continuing rapid growth. Read Case Study Southern Glazer’s Wine & Spirits Learn how Columbia Business School helped Southern Glazer’s Wine & Spirits develop a leadership pipeline for women in a male-dominated industry. Read Case Study NewYork-Presbyterian Find out how Columbia Business School helped a world-class hospital system build a leadership pipeline critical to patient-centered healthcare. Read Case Study Powerco See how this New Zealand utility company leveraged the intellectual power of Columbia Business School to develop top leadership skills and new mindsets for a changing industry. Read Case Study Graham Windham Read how Columbia Business School empowers leaders at the nonprofit Graham Windham so they can help young New Yorkers and their families thrive. Read Case Study Select recent clients include Africa Business School Center for Curatorial Leadership China Construction Bank Debevoise & Plimpton LLP Deloitte Deutsche Bank Development Bank of Japan Eruditus Executive Education Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile (FIA) First Eagle Investment Management Google HSBC IPADE Business School Kering NewYork–Presbyterian Hospital OCP Group Proskauer Rose LLP Simpson Thacher Société Générale Sun Yat-sen University WHU – Otto Beisheim School of Management Young Presidents’ Organization Questions? Questions Regarding Programs for Organizations Submit Send your question Inquire To inquire about custom programming for your organization, please visit our inquiry page. We’ll help you design the best course of action for you and your team. Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements