Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Directions Hotels Contact Our Office Other Career Offices Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Training at the Very Center of Business Student Body at a Glance Entrepreneurial-Minded Employment Reports Contact Us Contact Recruiting Columbia Business School Students Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Directions Hotels Contact Our Office Other Career Offices Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Training at the Very Center of Business Student Body at a Glance Entrepreneurial-Minded Employment Reports Contact Us Recruiting Columbia Business School Students » How Do I Recruit? » On-Campus Recruiting » Interview Logistics » Student Policies Student Policies list-style-none Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Visiting Campus Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Employment Reports Contact Us Columbia Business School’s code of student conduct requires that students act in an honest and considerate manner at all times and respect the rights of others, whether engaged in activities on- or off-campus. Failure to do so can result in students being subject to the sanctions noted below and a required appearance before the Dean’s Disciplinary Committee. While every subtlety of proper behavior cannot be detailed, students must adhere to the following policies during the recruiting process. Failure to adhere to acceptable interview practices can seriously damage a student’s reputation among hiring companies, fellow students, alumni, faculty, and administration. Scheduling Interviews Schedule your interviews and call backs only during non-class times. Students must not miss class due to interviews or recruiting-related events. Address scheduling conflicts as soon as they arise; there is little that can be done when the issue is raised the day before the interview. Canceling Interviews Cancel an on-campus interview through COIN by 9:00 a.m. two business days before the interview. Cancel after this time [only in extreme circumstances] by contacting the recruiting company directly and to notify the Career Management Center via email). No show penalties apply. Never interview after you have accepted an offer. Interview No Shows Cancellation after 9:00 am two business days before the interview is considered a no-show unless you have an emergency. The consequences for "no-shows" are as follows: You will be required to write a formal letter of apology to the recruiter, with a copy to Regina Resnick, Associate Dean and Managing Director of the Career Management Center and cc Tricia Baione and Dan Gabriel, Directors. If you are a “no-show” for two interviews, you may lose on-campus interviewing privileges. If an extreme emergency arises and you cannot attend a scheduled interview, you must immediately notify the Career Management Center (212-854-5471) as well as the company by both phone and e-mail. Offers, Acceptances, and Job Commitments Responding to Offers: Professional communication with firms is required. This includes prompt return of phone calls and emails and honest communication of intentions. Turning down offers should be done in a live conversation with the person at the firm with whom you have the strongest relationship; email is not an acceptable way of turning down an offer. Verbal acceptances are binding. Student Multiple Offer Guideline: Students should hold no more than three formal job offers at any time. If a student subsequently receives a fourth or any additional offers, one or more should be released within two business days. Reneging on a Job Offer Students who renege on an accepted offer may be subject to disciplinary action including the suspension of recruiting privileges, and may be required to undergo the Dean's Disciplinary Process. Deciding to leave a job shortly after you begin working can also be considered reneging on your commitment. We are aware that students' life circumstances sometimes change, necessitating a reopening of the conversation with the employer; if you find yourself in such a situation, speak with one of the Directors of Career Management before you take any action with the employer. Company Events If you RSVP to an event, you should attend. If last minute circumstances prevent your attendance, email the contact person at the company immediately to inform them and express your regrets. Arrive on time and stay for the entire presentation. Students are expected to behave professionally at all times at company events. Sidebar Content Post a Job Log Into COIN Make a Gift Have a Question? Just contact us. Related Content 2022-2023 Recruiter's Guide Full-Time Recruiting Policies Internship Recruiting Policies Corporate Presentation Policies Directions to Campus Full-Time MBA Recruiting Target full-time students for summer internships and full-time opportunities. Download Guide → Experienced-Level Recruiting Target a diverse group of professionals with 5-10 years of experience or more. Download Guide → Masters of Science Recruiting Connect with students who are focused on Financial Economics, Marketing or Accounting and Fundamental Analysis. Download Guide → International Student Recruiting Target students from abroad with diverse backgrounds. Download Guide → skinny-block Quick Links Post a Job → Login to COIN → Order Resume Books → Contact Us → Other Columbia Career Offices → skinny-block Recruiting Calendars Full-Time → Internship → three-block Campus Map and Directions Columbia Business School is located on the University’s Manhattanville campus on W 130th St between Broadway and Riverside Drive. Employment Report 2021 2021 Employment Report Learn more about the diverse career paths of our MBA students. Download Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top