About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom Directory The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise » Initiatives » Climate Change and Business Program Climate Change and Business Program list-style-none About Courses Experiential Learning Social Ventures Research Connections Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom Climate change poses significant challenges and opportunities for business. The Climate Change and Business Program focuses on using markets and business skills to identify and implement solutions to mitigate, adapt to, or reverse climate change and its impacts on society globally. The program offers courses, experiential learning opportunities, research, conferences and seminars that develop connections to bridge theory and practice. Courses Three Cairns Fellowship Experiential Learning Research & Faculty Connections and Events Moderated by Dean Costis Maglaras, Professors Bruce Usher and Geoffrey Heal discuss climate change, one of the greatest threats to humanity, and how Columbia Business School and Columbia Climate School are positioned to make an impact. Courses Columbia Business School is home to many leading experts in the climate change field, and has offered courses in this field for over a decade. In addition, Columbia students have the option of taking climate change electives across the university in disciplines including law, earth sciences, policy, public health, and engineering to name a few. Columbia Business School courses include: B8363 Climate Finance B8201 Climate Change and the Energy Transition B8448 The Business of Climate Change: Investing and Managing in a Changing Environment B8224 Energy and Resource Economics B8352 Financing Energy Markets B8209 Climate Justice, Real Estate and Vulnerability B8027 Challenges in Measurement & Disclosure of Environmental, Social and Governance Data Students interested in this area may also register for the courses listed below: B8784 Business and Society: Reconciling Shareholder and Stakeholder Interests B8349 Finance and Sustainability B8423 Investor Influence on Corporate Sustainability B8762 Modern Political Economy B8767 Investing in Social Ventures B8527 Hacking for Humanity Venture Incubator For more information about course listings, click here. MBA students can find and cross register for courses across campus online. Non-MBA students can cross register for MBA classes online. A listing of climate-related courses in schools across campus can be downloaded here (PDF). Three Cairns Fellowship Past Fellowships: 2021 | 2020 | 2019 | 2018 The Three Cairns Fellowship at Columbia Business School provides support to MBA and EMBA students who complete semester- or year-long projects at the intersection of climate change and business. Students may apply individually or in teams for projects that work with Columbia research faculty, or any type of organization or business in the U.S. or abroad that is addressing sustainability and climate change issues. Projects should focus on using markets and business knowledge, skills, and tools to identify and implement solutions to mitigate, adapt to, or reverse climate change and its impacts. The Three Cairns Fellowship was endowed by Lise Strickler ’86 and Mark Gallogly ’86. Their recently established family office, Three Cairns Group, has a core commitment to making investments in decarbonizing the world economy. Eligible projects Projects can be semester or academic year-long projects, but must be completed by the end of April. Applicants may apply for projects scoped by the center (these will be circulated prior to the application deadline) or source their own proposed project with a Columbia faculty member, or client organization from any sector in the U.S. or abroad. Students who find their own project should also provide a project description that includes the key questions for the project team, data sets (if applicable) and sources of research to explore, faculty or organization contacts the students will work with, a timeline, and deliverables. Student projects without an external client (e.g. projects to develop your own social venture) are ineligible. Students should instead scope a project for an external business or organization in a relevant industry or sector. Criteria for project and team selection Fellowship applications should include: A clear purpose of the project and it’s potential to address climate change using business knowledge and skills, practices, or approaches; Clear expectations, realistic scope and deliverable(s) given the semester timeline; Collective skillset of the individual or team that applies to address the project needs and timeframe; and Internal organizational contacts and/or external advisors including Columbia faculty that have agreed to work with the applicant/student team. Award and student obligations Three Cairns Fellowships will be awarded to between four to six projects each academic year. The fellowship award provides individual students without a team with up to $3,000, or project teams up to a maximum of $6,000 per team, upon completion of the project. Project teams can be any size, though we suggest not more than four per team unless a compelling case can be made (e.g. unusual skillsets, significantly large project scope etc.) that requires a larger team. In addition to the final deliverables specified in the project description, Three Cairns Fellows must: Provide a short written summary of the project and its impact, to be made available online; Deliver a project presentation in April, which will be open to students, faculty, alumni, supporters, and external organizations; and Complete a short online survey about the project experience. Students also have the option of reaching out to Professor Bruce Usher to see if he would be willing to engage with them for independent study course credit for their Three Cairns Fellowship projects. Application process and deadlines For MBA/EMBA students Information will be circulated by email to students every fall, and a team finder spreadsheet will also be circulated by email prior to application deadlines. MBA and EMBA student applications are due early in the fall semester every year. Students have the option of finishing their project at the end of the fall semester or completing it over the course of the whole academic year. All projects, however, must be completed by the end of April each year and must participate in a final project presentation in April. Please apply online here. For potential client organizations If you are interested in working with a Three Cairns Fellow (individual or team of MBA/EMBA students), we accept applications on a rolling basis. Project descriptions are circulated at the start of the academic semester to which students may apply for the Three Cairns Climate Fellowship prior to the application deadline. These climate change projects may address research or strategic questions, market/customer segmentation growth, competitive or impact analyses, product development, or operational/supply chain/financial issues faced by your organization or business. Students can typically work up to 10-15 hours per week on projects during the academic semester. Please note that if you are matched with a student team, they will be required to make a presentation about their project that is open to the public, and provide a short written description of the project for the Tamer Center’s website. Client organizations may work with their teams to determine the information to be shared. In addition, student teams should not be asked by client organizations to sign confidentiality agreements. Please download the application form online here. Please contact the center if you have any questions: [email protected]. Experiential Learning In addition to the Three Cairns Fellowship, Columbia Business School provides a wide array of programming outside of courses for students to apply their problem-solving and decision-making abilities to the intersection of climate change and business. These opportunities leverage the many connections across the School and University -- in New York and beyond -- and provide a rich landscape for students to deepen their experiences and exposure to innovative market-based solutions to tackle climate change. These include: Pro Bono Consulting Projects Columbia Business School students may participate in pro-bono consulting projects with climate change related organizations through Columbia Pangea Advisors, Columbia Impact Investing Initiative (CI3), and the Small Business Consulting Program. Previous organizations with which students have completed projects include: SolarKal, One Degree Solar, MPOWERD and Volta River Authority. Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise helps students from across campus gain experience with climate-focused organizations through Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships. These fellowships provide financial support to Columbia and Barnard undergraduate and graduate students engaged in summer internships that create social and environmental value. Examples of past organizations with which summer fellows have worked in the climate space include the White Roof Project, the Natural Resources Defense Council, E+Co, Qualitative Alternatives, Coalition for Rainforest Nations, One Architecture, Watt Fuel Cell, and Social Solar. Nonprofit Board Leadership Program The Nonprofit Board Leadership Program (NBLP) helps support nonprofit organizations, including those working to address climate change, and cultivate the next generation of nonprofit board leaders at Columbia Business School. Each NBLP student is matched with an alumnus who serves on a nonprofit board, and together they agree on a project for the student to complete during the course of the academic year. This project bolsters the nonprofit board’s understanding of an issue important to the organization and provides the student with a meaningful experience that draws on his or her course work at Columbia Business School. Students in the past have completed projects with Environmental Advocates of New York and Brooklyn Urban Garden Charter School, among others. Columbia Business School Student Organizations The Green Business Club is a professional student organization that provides students with a network of like-minded individuals to share knowledge and facilitate career building. The club provides educational and career development resources and events focused on a wide range of green business industries, and advocates for sustainable practices through campus greening projects. The Energy Club empowers future leaders of the energy sector with the industry knowledge and networks needed to make a difference. They provide recruiting support for firms in the energy space and facilitate access to professional networks, industry talks, and other MBA energy organizations. The Social Enterprise Club caters to students at Columbia Business School who want to use business skills to create social, environmental, and economic value within the private, public, and nonprofit sectors. Through diverse events and numerous resources, they: 1) connect students interested in social enterprise with each other, faculty, alumni, professionals and organizations, 2) enrich their members' understanding of industries, ideas, and initiatives that create social impact, and 3) inspire students to become leaders who improve the world. Research Projects Corporate Climate Change Initiatives and Employees Vanessa Burbano and Stephen Meier Professors Burbano and Meier are examining whether, how, and under what circumstances corporate climate change-related pledges and practices influence employee behavior and outcomes, as well as how employee behavior can be influenced to more positively affect corporate climate change outcomes. Through both experimental and field methodologies, they evaluate these relationships through a behavioral lens in order to help companies understand how their climate initiatives influence a key stakeholder group: their employees. Understanding and Shaping Consumer Behavior to Fight Climate Change Gita Johar, Eric Johnson, Michael Morris, and Vicki Morwitz Professors Johar, Johnson, Morris, and Morwitz are collectively undertaking research to better understand consumer behavior in the face of green choices. Eric Johnson’s research focuses on how to enable consumers to identify greener products, as well as to identify cases where there is a tradeoff between product categories, promoting improved carbon mental accounting. Vicki Morwitz and Gita Johar are researching the incorporation of theoretical climate change mitigation interventions and customer metrics into a digital platform to enable consumers to make more sustainable decisions. Michael Morris focuses on mechanisms to motivate consumers to buy green products. Each focus area demonstrates various methods to move consumer behavior in a more sustainable direction. Buying Green Starts in the Body: Exploring Communication Strategies to Increase Green Consumerism via Psychophysiology Sheena Iyengar, Modupe Akinola, Michael White, and Sean Kaczmarek Professors Iyengar and Akinola, PhD candidate White, and Research Staff Associate Kaczmarek examine how and to what extent physiological responses to climate change conversations are shaped by how information is delivered, as well as how subsequent behavior changes in relation to green consumerism. The researchers will employ a variety of contexts, samples, measures, and designs in an effort to better understand effective climate change communication techniques, ultimately demonstrating how psychophysiological reactions to organizational communication might impact consumer intentions and behaviors. Using Climate Change Prediction Markets to Shift Climate Beliefs Sandra Matz, Moran Cerf, and Malcolm MacIver (Northwestern) Professors Matz, Cerf, and MacIver are examining the extent to which engagement with prediction markets can change attitudes and increase support for climate science. The researchers are evaluating which psychological mechanisms lead to changes in opinion towards climate science to: 1) better understand public opinion on climate solutions; 2) help policymakers understand their constituents; 3) offer predictions about climate outcomes that can be aggregated and used for scientific assessment; 4) introduce an additional financial instrument to help potentially mitigate climate risks; and 5) enable individuals to direct monetary resources into climate solutions. Are Carbon Reduction Pledges Credible? The Case of US Oil and Gas Companies Shiva Rajgopal, Hemang Desai (Southern Methodist), and Pauline Lam (NYU) Professors Rajgopal, Desai (Southern Methodist), and Lam (NYU) are evaluating how the US oil and gas sector has responded to the increased pressure to decarbonize and reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. The researchers will compare companies’ pledges and related actions to better understand company behavior and the ways that the market responds to these commitments or their absence. This research will provide insights into mechanisms for achieving net zero, the feasibility of transition by various firms, the seriousness of different commitments, and the ways that capital markets react to these pledges. Clean Growth and Climate Change Conor Walsh and Costas Arkolakis (Yale) Professors Walsh and Arkolakis are examining the implications of falling power prices in renewables for both growth and emissions across regions and at a global scale. Using data on global power grids, energy capital, energy resources, and productivity growth, the researchers are assessing the effects of renewable adoption on global production and how productivity changes as a result of access to cheaper energy. This research will ultimately contribute to improvements in climate modelling on energy investment and trade patterns out to 2050. Additional Research and Insights Research Forums Climate Business & Investment Conference (2022) Climate Science & Investment Conference (2021) Climate Science & Investment Conference (2019) Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics (2018) Climate Science & Investment Conference (2018) The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors (2017) Papers and Working Papers Rising Oceans: Economics and Science Working Paper (2018) Geoffrey Heal and Marco Tedesco Governance and Climate Change: A Success Story in Mobilizing Investor Support for Corporate Responses to Climate Change Journal of Applied Corporate Finance (2016) Mats Andersson, Patrick Bolton, Frederic Samama Applying Asset Pricing Theory to Calibrate the Price of Climate Risk Working Paper (2015) Kent Daniel, Robert Litterman, Gernot Wagner Hedging Climate Risk Working paper (2014) Mats Andersson, Patrick Bolton, Frederic Samama Ambiguity and Climate Policy Working Paper (2011) Geoffrey Heal, Antony Milner, Simon Dietz The Drivers of Greenwashing California Management Review (2011) Magali Delmas, Vanessa Burbano Towards an International Green Fund Working paper (2010) Patrick Bolton, Roger Guesnerie, Frederic Samama Corporate Environmentalism: Doing Well by Being Green Is Economic Growth Sustainable? (2010) Geoffrey Heal Are We Consuming Too Much? Journal of Economic Perspectives (2004) Geoffrey Heal, Kenneth Arrow, Partha Dasgupta, Lawrence Goulder, Gretchen Daily, Paul Ehrlich, Simon Levin, Karl-Goran Maler, Stephen Schneider, David Starrett, Brian Walker Uncertainty and Climate Change Working Paper (2002) Geoffrey Heal Climate Change and Uncertainty Working Paper (2002) Geoffrey Heal, Bengt Kristrom For more information about research on climate change, see the Program for Financial Studies. Books and Chapters Renewable Energy: A Primer for the Twenty-First Century Book (2019) Bruce Usher Endangered Economies Book (2016) Geoffrey Heal The Spectacular Growth of Solar PV Leasing Renewable Energy Finance: Powering the Future (2015) Bruce Usher, Albert Gore III Tipping Climate Negotiations Chapter in Climate Change and Common Sense: Essays in Honour of Tom Schelling (2012) Geoffrey Heal, Howard Kunreuther Environmental Markets: Equity and Efficiency Book (2000) Graciela Chichilnisky, Geoffrey Heal Nature and the Marketplace: Capturing the Value of the Ecosystem Book (2000) Geoffrey Heal Valuing the Future: Economic Theory and Sustainability Book (1998) Geoffrey Heal Press and Media Reasons to Be Upbeat about Clean Energy Ideas and Insights (2019) Bruce Usher PG&E: The First Climate-Change Bankruptcy, Probably Not the Last The Wall Street Journal (2019) Bruce Usher Sea Level Rise and Coastal Development: Science Speaks Directly to Business Columbia Business School News (2018) Geoffrey Heal and Bruce Usher How Vacations Can Fuel Sustainable Economic Activities Ideas and Insights (2018) Geoffrey Heal Why are We Politicizing Hurricanes, the Environment? USA Today (2018) Geoffrey Heal Places at Greatest Risk of Hurricane Disaster 24/7 Wall St. (2018) Geoffrey Heal Carbon Taxes a Mixed Blessing for the Climate The Hill (2018) Geoffrey Heal Sea Levels Must Rise to the Top of the Agenda in Washington The Hill (2018) Geoffrey Heal Commentary: Why Now Is the Perfect Time to Invest in a Low-Carbon Index Fortune (2018) Patrick Bolton We Already Know How to Curb Climate Change Ideas and Insights (2017) Geoffrey Heal There's More Than One Route to Doing Well by Doing Good Ideas and Insights (2016) Vanessa Burbano On the Heels of a Boom, a Foggier Future for Solar Ideas and Insights (2016) Bruce Usher Up in Smoke Ideas and Insights (2015) Mats Andersson, Patrick Bolton, and Frederic Samama Climate Change and the Next Great Recession Ideas and Insights (2015) Geoffrey Heal The High Cost of Climate Uncertainty Ideas and Insights (2015) Kent Daniel VW Scandal Just the Tip of the Greenwashing Iceberg Ideas and Insights (2015) Vanessa Burbano Real Progress on Emissions Can Lead to a Global Pact The New York Times (2014) Bruce Usher The U.S. as a Climate Change Leader? Huffington Post (2014) Bruce Usher For more articles and insights on climate change at Columbia Business School, see Ideas at Work. Cases Architects of the Future? Tesla, Inc., Energy, Transportation, and the Climate Columbia CaseWorks (2017) Geoffrey Heal, Bruce Usher From Pioneer to Pariah: SunEdison, Inc., and the Global Solar Photovoltaics Industry Columbia CaseWorks (2017) Geoffrey Heal, Bruce Usher Pattern Energy and the YieldCo Sector Columbia CaseWorks (2016) Bruce Usher Stanford Dumps Coal Columbia CaseWorks (2015) Andrew Ang, Bruce Usher E+Co: A View from the Boardroom Columbia CaseWorks (2013) Bruce Usher Keystone Solar Columbia CaseWorks (2013) Bruce Usher The Mossi Ghisolfi Group Monetizing Beta Renewables Columbia CaseWorks (2013) Geoffrey Heal The Jersey-Atlantic Wind Farm Columbia CaseWorks (2012) Bruce Usher Citigroup and the Equator Principles Columbia CaseWorks (2008) Geoffrey Heal Podcasts Climate Science, Explained WNYC (2019) Peter deMenocal Taxing Carbon: Boon for Economy & Climate? Columbia Energy Exchange, Center on Global Energy Policy at SIPA (2018) Glenn Hubbard Faculty Leadership Learn more Patrick Bolton Barbara and David Zalaznick Professor of Business Vanessa Burbano Assistant Professor Kent Daniel William von Mueffling Professor of Business; Chair of Finance Division Geoffrey Heal Donald C. Waite III Professor of Social Enterprise Bruce Usher Co-Director of the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise; Elizabeth B. Strickler '86 and Mark T. Gallogly '86 Faculty Director; Professor of Professional Practice Connections across Columbia University The Climate Change and Business Program hosts interdisciplinary events in collaboration with other centers and schools across the University. The Climate Business & Investment Conference brings together climate scientists and business leaders to understand how new advances in climate science can inform investments in specific sectors of the global economy. The forum explores topics that address the value and opportunity of using a science-based approach to inform and guide business and investment decisions. The 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference, Transition to Net Zero examined the global transition to net zero greenhouse gas emissions. This conference was a joint effort by the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise and Columbia Climate School. The 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference, The Energy Transition examined two interrelated business trends — the transition to renewable energy and electric vehicles — that are of interest to the investment community, and the relationship to climate change. This conference was a joint effort by the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise and the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. The 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference, Ice Sheets and Sea Level Rise: Implications for Coastal Property explored how advances in climate science research can be used to reduce investment risk and improve returns. This forum was a joint effort by the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise and the Paul Milstein Center for Real Estate at Columbia Business School, and the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. The 2017 Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors explored how the application of the best climate science can improve competition across the private sector. This forum was a joint effort by the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise at Columbia Business School and the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. The Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics is of primary interest to Northeast scholars involved in research in energy policy and environmental economics. A set of papers was presented on a variety of topics reflecting the latest advances in energy and environmental economics. Read about other recent events here and past events here. The program is also part of many environmental initiatives across the University. Key programs, centers, and student groups at Columbia University include: The Earth Institute The Earth Institute Columbia Water Center Lenfest Center for Sustainable Energy Center for Climate Systems Research Center for Environmental Sustainability Center for International Earth Science Information Network Center for Sustainable Urban Development Center for Sustainable Development Columbia Climate Center International Research Institute for Climate and Society Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory National Center for Disaster Preparedness Research Program on Sustainability Policy and Management Cross-Cutting Initiative The Earth Clinic Center for Research on Environmental Decisions Cooperative Institute for Climate Applications and Research Center on Sustainable Investment Center for Science and Society Cross Campus Environmental Stewardship Columbia Business School Climate Change and Finance at the Program for Financial Studies Green Business Club Social Enterprise Club Energy Club Graduate School of Architecture, Preservation, and Planning Embodied Energy Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Climate and Society Program Earth and Environmental Engineering Program Earth and Environmental Sciences Program Environmental Health Sciences Program Sustainable Development Program Barnard College Environmental Biology Program Environmental Policy Program Environmental Science Program Barnard ROOTS Columbia University Medical Campus Columbia University Medical Campus is comprised of four schools: College of Physicians and Surgeons, College of Dental Medicine, Mailman School of Public Health, and School of Nursing. NIEHS Center for Environmental Health in Northern Manhattan Environmental Health Sciences Program Students for Environmental Action One Health Initiative Columbia College Earth and Environmental Sciences Program Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology Program Students for Environmental and Economic Justice Columbia University Environmental Biology Society Student Union on Sustainable Development Columbia Divest for Climate Justice Columbia University Renewable Energy Society The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Program Earth Engineering Center for Sustainable Waste Management Engineers Without Borders Scientists and Engineers for a Better Society School of General Studies Earth and Environmental Science Program Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology Program Environmental Biology Program Environmental Chemistry Program Environmental Science Program Sustainable Development Program School of International and Public Affairs Environmental Science and Policy Program Sustainable Development Program Energy and Environment Concentration Center on Global Energy Policy Social Entrepreneurship Club SIPA Environmental Coalition (ECO) Sustainable Development Doctoral Society Net Impact Club Journalism School Science and Environment Concentration Law School Environmental Law Clinic Sabin Center for Climate Change Law Environmental Law Society School of Professional Studies Nonprofit Management Program Sustainability Management Program Sustainability Analytics Certificate Sustainable Finance Certificate Sustainable Water Management Certificate Conservation and Environmental Sustainability Certificate Women & Sustainability Student Association for Columbia University’s Master of Science in Sustainability Management (SUMASA) SUMA Net Impact Sustainability Science Union Theological Seminary Center for Earth Ethics Ecology Caucus Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top