About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom Directory The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise » Research » Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship: The Role of Businesses and Universities Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship: The Role of Businesses and Universities list-style-none About Courses Experiential Learning Social Ventures Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Initiatives Newsroom What can businesses and universities do to promote the successful reentry of people returning home from prisons and jails? There is an increasing awareness that successful reentry improves the social, economic, and moral well-being of our society. Central to this awareness is an acknowledgment that effective education, employment, and entrepreneurial opportunities allow formerly incarcerated people both to advance themselves and our nation. However, a focus on the critical roles played by businesses and universities is often absent from discussions about solutions. This forum—a joint effort by the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise at Columbia Business School and the Columbia University Center for Justice—is an unprecedented undertaking to address these critical issues. We will convene scholars, policy-makers, nonprofits, business leaders and people directly affected by incarceration to better understand key ways that businesses and universities can bolster successful reentry. Agenda References Presentations Agenda Friday, April 22, 2016 8:00 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. This event is by invitation only. If you are interested in being added to the invitation list, please contact [email protected]. Co-Sponsored by 8:00–8:30 a.m. Breakfast and Registration 8:30–8:45 a.m. Welcome and Introduction Lee C. Bollinger President, Seth Low Professor Columbia University Damon Phillips Lambert Family Professor of Social Enterprise Co-director, Tamer Center for Social Enterprise Columbia Business School 8:45–9:45 a.m. Keynote Speaker Jeremy Travis President John Jay College of Criminal Justice 9:45–10:45 a.m. Academic Insights Ifeoma Ajunwa (Moderator) Assistant Professor of Law, University of the District of Columbia Ph.D. Candidate, Columbia University Greg Fairchild PhD '02 E. Thayer Bigelow Associate Professor of Business Administration; Institute for Business in Society Academic Director Darden School of Business, University of Virginia Devah Pager Professor of Sociology and Public Policy Harvard University; Susan S. and Kenneth L. Wallach Professor Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Michael Stoll Professor of Public Policy and Urban Planning Associate Director of the Center for the Study of Urban Poverty UCLA Luskin School of Public Affairs José Zubizarreta Assistant Professor, Decision, Risk and Operations Columbia Business School; Affiliated Faculty with Department of Statistics Columbia University 10:45–11:15 a.m. Coffee Break 11:15 a.m.– 12:15 p.m. Keynote Speaker Glenn E. Martin Founder and President JustLeadershipUSA (JLUSA) 12:15–1:45 p.m. Working Lunch - Round table Discussions "SME Approaches to Hiring" Moderated by Joel Hommes, Wash Cycle Laundry "Nonprofits as Employment Facilitators" Moderated by Rich Robbins '01, Upper West Strategies "Large Business Approaches to Hiring" Moderated by Christine Chan, XPO Logistics 1:45–2:45 p.m. Business Insights Bill Keller (Moderator) Founding Editor-in-Chief The Marshall Project Lynn Allen Technical Evangelist Autodesk John Dillow Senior Product Manager SkillSmart Frederick Hutson Chief Executive Officer Pigeonly Kathryn Wylde President and CEO The Partnership for New York City 2:45–3:45 p.m. Community and Government Insights Geraldine Downey (Moderator) Professor of Psychology Director, the Center for Justice Columbia University Ronald Day Associate Vice President Fortune Society Paul Keefe Supervising Attorney New York City Commission on Human Rights Victoria Sharp, MD Former Director, The Spencer Cox Center for Health St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital 3:45–4:00 p.m. Afternoon Break 4:00–4:30 p.m. Putting the Pieces Together Pamela Valera Assistant Professor, Sociomedical Sciences Columbia University Medical Center 4:30–4:45 p.m. Closing Remarks Geraldine Downey Professor of Psychology Director, the Center for Justice Columbia University Executive Directors who would like to attend future forums can contact: [email protected]. References and Links Provided by Speakers Ifeoma Ajunwa The Modern Day Scarlet Letter, Fordham Law Review and Columbia Public Law Research Paper Lynn Allen Releasing confidence: prison entrepreneurship programs offer path, San Francisco Chronicle Female prisoners in Calif. prep for life outside with Autodesk certificate, USA Today Prison program trains female felons for professional careers, KCRA-TV (NBC, Sacramento) Women Behind Bars Getting Help Building Technical Skills To Find A Job, KOVR-TV (CBS, Sacramento) Gregory Fairchild Second Chances: Darden’s Fairchild Launches Prison Entrepreneurship Program Interviews with Volunteers from Class of 2014 on their experiences in the program Prisoners with an eye for profit learn lessons from behind bars, Financial Times Darden Discoveries: From Inmates to Entrepreneurs Devah Pager The Mark of a Criminal Record, American Journal of Sociology Race a Factor in Job Offers for Ex-Convicts, New York Times Sequencing Disadvantage: Barriers to Employment Facing Young Black and White Men with Criminal Records, Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Sciences Race at Work: Realities of Race and Criminal Record in the New York City Job Market, Report prepared for the 50th Anniversary of the New York City Commission on Human Rights, Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture Episode 697: Help Wanted, Planet Money podcast Michael Stoll Perceived Criminality, Criminal Background Checks, and the Racial Hiring Practices of Employers, Journal of Law and Economics The Effect Of Criminal Background Checks On Hiring Ex-Offenders, Criminology & Public Policy Jeremy Travis But They All Come Back: Rethinking Prisoner Reentry, National Institute of Justice Curated Articles from the Marshall Project (editor-in-chief, Bill Keller) Start Me Up: Is entrepreneurship the way from prison to prosperity? 11 People who Used to Be in Jail—but are now changing the World. Every Hero has a past. Café momentum Gives Second Chance to Former Juvenile Offenders. This innovative program aims to take formerly incarcerated youth out of the cycle of crime. From Life in Prison to a New Life in San Francisco Tech Scene, Huffington Post. Other References Bruce Western and Becky Pettit, Mass Imprisonment and the Life Course: Race and Class Inequality in U.S. Incarceration Jeffery Morenoff and David J. Harding, Incarceration, Prisoner Reentry, and Communities StartUp Podcast: Happy Ending, and From the Cell to the Sell explores Coss Marte's story on his path from felon to founder, and how he thinks about hiring for his business. Research on Reentry and Employment collated by the National Institute of Justice. Presentations Jeremy Travis Keynote Jeremy Travis Michael Stoll Academic insights Michael Stoll posted by the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise Devah Pager Academic insights by Devah Pager Greg Fairchild Academic insights by Greg Fairchild José Zubizarreta Academic insights by Jose Zubizarreta Lynn Allen Business insights by Lynn Allen Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top