Partnership Opportunities Research Initiatives Student-Run Events Fellowships and Scholarships Corporate and Foundation Partners Speak at the School Silfen Leadership Series Student Activities Contact Us Directory Corporate and Foundation Relations Partnership Opportunities Research Initiatives Student-Run Events Fellowships and Scholarships Corporate and Foundation Partners Speak at the School Silfen Leadership Series Student Activities Contact Us Corporate and Foundation Relations » Partnership Opportunities » Research Initiatives Research Initiatives Main menu Partnership Opportunities Research Initiatives Student-Run Events Fellowships and Scholarships Corporate and Foundation Partners Speak at the School Contact Us At Columbia Business School, our core mission is to bridge academic theory and real-world business practice, and our world-renowned faculty members are central to achieving this goal. Much of our faculty research comes through our 26 preeminent centers and programs — places like the Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center and the Paul Milstein Center for Real Estate. As an institutional partner, you can invest in innovative thought leadership that has a tangible impact on current business practice in every industry. These collaborations engender meaningful exchanges between business leaders and academics seeking to address common challenges. Together, you’ll solve critical issues and generate new growth opportunities. Our centers and programs also regularly partner with corporations and foundations to promote public discourse. They produce co-branded publications, host major conferences, and convene intimate, off-the-record forums, which bring together industry leaders, scholars, government officials, students, and the media to take part in the discussion. Accounting The Center for Excellence in Accounting and Security Analysis Decision, Risk, and Operations The Center for Pricing and Revenue Management The W. Edwards Deming Center for Quality, Productivity, and Competitiveness Finance and Economics The Columbia Institute for Tele-Information (CITI) Program for Financial Studies The Heilbrunn Center for Graham & Dodd Investing Center on Japanese Economy and Business (CJEB) The Paul Milstein Center for Real Estate The Private Equity Program The Richard Paul Richman Center for Business, Law, and Public Policy Management The Behavioral Research Lab The Center for Decision Sciences The Global Leadership Matrix Healthcare and Pharmaceutical Management Program Motivation Science Center The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise Leadership Lab The Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Center for Leadership and Ethics Marketing The Center on Global Brand Leadership Cross-Disciplinary The Arthur J. Samberg Institute for Teaching Excellence Columbia University-Harlem Small Business Development Center (SBDC) The Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center Family Business Program The Jerome A. Chazen Institute for Global Business The Media & Technology Program Sidebar Content Make a Gift Download our Partnership Guide Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top