Home About Leadership Mission Statement Affiliated Faculty Advisory Board Thought Leadership Research Family Enterprise Insights Newsletter In the News Events & Activities Upcoming Events Family Enterprise Conference BBH Family Business Leadership Speaker Series Founding Women 2020 Family Enterprise Entertainment Past Events Alumni Family Enterprise Alumni Circle Alumni Profiles Courses & Students Courses for MBAs, EMBAs, & Cross-registrants Family Enterprise Student Experience Prospective Student FAQs Courses for Families Why Family Enterprise Education? Global Family Enterprise Program Home About Leadership Mission Statement Affiliated Faculty Advisory Board Thought Leadership Research Family Enterprise Insights Newsletter In the News Events & Activities Upcoming Events Family Enterprise Conference BBH Family Business Leadership Speaker Series Founding Women 2020 Family Enterprise Entertainment Past Events Alumni Family Enterprise Alumni Circle Alumni Profiles Courses & Students Courses for MBAs, EMBAs, & Cross-registrants Family Enterprise Student Experience Prospective Student FAQs Courses for Families Why Family Enterprise Education? Close up Classroom.jpg The Columbia Global Family Enterprise Program A global leader in research, teaching, and convening around all aspects of family enterprise- the heart of the world’s economy and society. Website photo_luckyNumber7.png A family enterprise is … A group of family businesses, family office(s), investments and/ or philanthropic ventures jointly owned and/ or controlled by two or more family members with the goal of lasting across generations. Classroom photo.jpg Family enterprise matters because... - Families own at least 80% of the world’s businesses. - Family Businesses employ the majority of workers globally. - Family Offices actively invest in private equity and venture capital. - Families fund most of the world’s philanthropy and are at the cutting edge of social enterprise. Quick links: Family Enterprise Insights Courses Course Road Map Columbia Business School Courses Unparalleled Curriculum We offer 5 dedicated classes for MBAs and two for EMBAs. From operating businesses to wealth management and family offices, our courses are comprehensive and integrated across the curriculum. See our course roadmap. Upcoming Events 2 2022 NEW IDEAS IN FAMILY FIRMS: AN ACADEMIC/PRACTITIONER CONFERENCE Thank you to all the speakers and attendees who participated in the 2022 New Ideas in Family Firms Conference, hosted by Columbia Business School's Global Family Enterprise Program and INSEAD's Wendel International Centre for Family Enterprise! Since its inception, The New Ideas Conference has focused on bringing together academics and practitioners and encourages cross-disciplinary discussions. BBH Family Business Leadership Speaker Series: Dilhan Fernando of Dilmah Tea Exclusive for Alumni Family Enterprise Alumni Circle The CBS Family Enterprise Alumni Circle is a growing group of CBS alumni interested in continuing our educational and professional development with fellow graduates in family enterprise. Membership is complimentary. Some events are fee-based. *Membership is open to all CBS and Global Family Enterprise Program alumni.* Learn More → Save the Date! BBH Family Business Leadership Speaker Series Register now for this in-person BBH Family Business Leadership Speaker Series event! Ashley Fina, former CEO & President of Michael C. Fina Wednesday, June 15th, 2022 6:00 - 8:00 p.m. ET (in-person) Register → Video Theory and Practice at a World-class Institution Family Enterprise Insights Reinvention & Resilience! April 1, 2022 9:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. EST Virtual Thank to everyone who attended the Global Family Enterprise Program’s 8th Annual Family Enterprise Conference: Reinvention & Resilience! This year's audience included over 100 people from 16 different countries, reflecting the global nature of our program! Did you Know? Did You Know? Family enterprises can be public and private, and include many househld names such as: - Families own at least 80% of the world’s businesses. - Family enterprises employ the majority of workers globally. - Family offices actively invest in private equity and venture capital. - Families fund most of the world’s philanthropy and are at the cutting edge of social enterprise. Make a Contribution Make a Contribution Your generous contribution will help us continue the business school’s strong tradition of equipping students, alumni, and faculty members with the tools necessary to think critically about family business issues. For more information or to make your gift online, please click on the 'Donate Now' button below. Donate Now! On the main screen, please select "Other" as the designation option and include "Gift for the Global Family Enterprise Program" in the Comments/Special Instruction field on the next page. We thank you in advance for your support! Stay in Touch Stay in Touch For news and updates from the Global Family Enterprise Program, sign up for our Email List. Sign Up Now! Follow us on Linkedin In the News In the News Patricia Angus named one of the Top 20 Family Office Advisors 2021 Patricia Angus on Wealthy parents face delicate balance when passing their money on to their children — especially the wayward ones Private equity pros and cons Patricia Angus on Two’s company: Are two-tier management boards just double trouble? Professor Patricia Angus on why defining terms matters when working with families. Professor Josh Baron on building your network when you're part of a family business. Professor Patricia Angus weighs in on the impact of tax reform on family businesses. Congrats to Professor Patricia Angus, one of Citywealth's 2017 IFC Powerwomen! Patricia Angus on Why the Study of Family Business is Important> Patricia Angus on the Importance of Family Businesses to the Global Economy > Patricia Angus on Impact of Trump Presidency on Family Businesses > Patricia Angus on "What Makes a Family Business Different" Patricia Angus on "Inheriting a Real Estate Empire" Family Business Program Partners with Brown Brothers Harriman The Family Business Program at Columbia Business School and Brown Brothers Harriman (BBH), which operates the oldest and largest privately-held bank in the United States, have announced a new partnership for the 2016–17 academic year. The partnership includes a gift from BBH that will provide crucial seed money to develop and scale the Family Business Program. The funds will enable the program to move forward with immediate plans for curricular development, research, and new student and alumni programming. BBH is the Family Business Program’s founding corporate sponsor. Read the full announcement Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top