Skip to main content Group 1 COVID-19 Strategy Group 2 Entrepreneurship Economics & Policy Group 3 Media & Tech Social Enterprise Group 4 Leadership Marketing Group 5 Finance Publications Brand Talk Chazen Global Insights Columbia Bizcast Columbia Business Ideas at Work The Lang Letter About Newsroom Economics & Policy Sex and the Chinese Economy Shang-Jin Wei May 25, 2021 As the Chinese government worries about the country’s low population growth, it has progressively relaxed its family-planning policy. Policymakers should now go further and provide a significant financial reward to parents of baby girls. Strategy The Race to Innovate May 17, 2021 What happens when a country relies on homegrown products and ideas rather than using the world’s best? New research reveals surprising answers. Economics & Policy How Biden Can Restore Multilateralism Unilaterally Joseph E. Stiglitz January 4, 2021 A post-pandemic economic recovery will not be strong anywhere until it’s strong everywhere. Economics & Policy Three Global Steps to a Biden Climate Initiative Shang-Jin Wei October 30, 2020 The climate crisis is the greatest threat to humanity’s long-term viability. With more sensible US leadership, the world will have a fighting chance of survival. Video Block Video Leading through Crisis: Webinars & Presentations US-China Economic Relations & COVID-19: What's Next? The world's two largest economies are both partners and rivals, deeply intertwined but also with divergent interests. How will these contradictions resolve themselves following COVID-19? Marketing How Columbia Business School Boosted My Career At the Pan-Euro Forum, held in Paris in October 2018, Columbia Business School alumni share how their CBS experience shaped their success today. Strategy The Great Business of Brexit: CBS Alumni Prepare Is Brexit helping or hurting businesses? Attendees of Columbia Business School’s Pan-Euro Forum, held in Paris in October 2018, discuss how they are preparing for Great Britain’s exit from the European Union. Leadership Let Go, Listen, and Trust: Leadership Lessons from CBS Alumni Attendees of Columbia Business School’s Pan-Euro Forum, held in Paris in October 2018, share the hard lessons they learned to become the leaders they are today. Topics View for Landing Pages Topics Economics & Policy The IMF's Unfinished Business A Balanced Response to Inflation Entrepreneurship The Globalization of Entrepreneurship The Startup Pay Premium Finance The Brussels Effect on Sustainable Finance When Corporations Issue Debt Leadership The Power of Procurement Officers How Meaning at Work Impacts the Gender Pay Gap Marketing Beware the Streetlight Effect How Selfies Can Drive Brand Engagement Media & Tech A Reckoning for Big Tech? Hey, US Tech: Here Comes the Brussels Effect Social Enterprise The Case for Paying People to Get Vaccinated Solar Panels and Batteries: A Cheap Rural Energy Source Strategy The Race to Innovate Leverage Your Values for Better Decision Making publications Brand Talk Archive → Chazen Global Insights Archive → Columbia Bizcast Archive → Columbia Business Archive → Ideas at Work Archive → The Lang Letter Archive → Make a Gift About Us RSS Feeds Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University 3022 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top