About The Lang Leadership Team Lang Center Advisory Board and Lang Fund Board Faculty Advisory Board Curriculum Students Launch Lang Coach Office Hours Entrepreneurship Research Resources Summer Startup Track Columbia Technology Founder’s Track (CTech) Columbia Build Lab Entrepreneurial Greenhouse Program Lang Fund Invest Columbia Venture Fellows Summer Fellowship Program: VC Pitchbook Access Lang Coach Office Hours Join Summer Fellowship Program: Startups Events and Networking Lang Talks CBS Startups Week Fall Startup Showcase CBS Startup Alley at TechDay Alumni Networking Night Alumni Ideas Ideas in Entrepreneurship & Innovation Faculty Research PhD Fellowship Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories ===> CBS Academic Calendar ===> CAMPUS-WIDE ENTREPRENEURSHIP CALENDAR The Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center About The Lang Leadership Team Lang Center Advisory Board and Lang Fund Board Faculty Advisory Board Curriculum Students Launch Lang Coach Office Hours Entrepreneurship Research Resources Summer Startup Track Columbia Technology Founder’s Track (CTech) Columbia Build Lab Entrepreneurial Greenhouse Program Lang Fund Invest Columbia Venture Fellows Summer Fellowship Program: VC Pitchbook Access Lang Coach Office Hours Join Summer Fellowship Program: Startups Events and Networking Lang Talks CBS Startups Week Fall Startup Showcase CBS Startup Alley at TechDay Alumni Networking Night Alumni Ideas Ideas in Entrepreneurship & Innovation Faculty Research PhD Fellowship Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories The Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center » » Curriculum Curriculum list-style-none About Curriculum Students Alumni Ideas Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories At the Eugene M. Lang Entrepreneurship Center, we offer courses focused on launching a company, investing in ventures, and joining a startup or other innovation role. Explore relevant courses for each of these areas in the Course Planner. Course Planner Launch: For students planning to start their own business during or after graduation from business school. Students are encouraged to take Foundations of Entrepreneurship → Launch Your Startup → Entrepreneurial Greenhouse Invest: For students looking to learn about investing in startups through venture capital (early stage and growth) and angel investing. Students are encouraged to take Foundations of VC → Venture Capital Seminar Join: For students aspiring to work at an existing startup or in innovation at a larger organization Featured Courses Foundations of Entrepreneurship serves as the gateway course to the entrepreneurship curriculum at CBS. Specific topics covered include: characteristics of successful startups and entrepreneurs; techniques for generating, identifying, and evaluating new ideas; forming and maintaining effective partnerships; customer discovery and acquisition; entrepreneurial finance, valuation and deal-making; entrepreneurship in international contexts; startup culture; exits; career tradeoffs; and learning how to pitch yourself and your business. Please note that, while all are welcome, this course is designed for students who have limited-to-no experience in the startup ecosystem. This course also serves as a prerequisite for Launch Your Startup. If you believe that you should be enrolled in LYS without having to take Foundations, please complete this survey. Launch Your Startup is an accelerated course for students who are ready to apply learnings from earlier classes and experience. They are already actively engaged with their target market, ready to advance their customer discovery and market research, design and test minimum viable products, develop customer acquisition strategy, and prepare investor-ready financials for fundraising. Entrepreneurial Greenhouse Students who already have a Minimum Viable Product (MVP) and a committed and vetted team can apply to enroll in Entrepreneurial Greenhouse. Greenhouse is designed as an accelerator and serves as a capstone to the Entrepreneurship Track. Entrepreneurial Strategy provides an integrated strategy framework for growth-oriented entrepreneurs. Students learn how to create and capture value as small, young, companies facing high uncertainty in the evolution of markets, industries, and underlying technologies. The course discusses these choices in the context of real startup companies that have recently faced strategic dilemmas in creating and commercializing an idea. This course is particularly appropriate for anyone interested in starting a company, creating a new industry, evaluating a new company’s sustainable advantage, and launching new products in existing companies. Foundations of VC explores venture capital and angel investing so that students understand and experience the process of investing in early stage (primarily tech) startups: 1. Sourcing deals, 2. Conducting due diligence, 3. Valuing startups, 4. Negotiating term sheets, and 5. Managing a portfolio. Students understand the seed stage investing landscape (players and resources) and understand the structural differences between venture capital and angel investing. This course does not go into sector specific investment strategies or growth stage investment. Foundations of Innovation offers students the opportunity to tackle the challenge of bringing to market elegant and efficient solutions to strong customer needs. The ability to innovate plays a pivotal role in the growth and success of many areas of business. This challenge is relevant whether working for a startup or a large company or selling products or services to individual consumers or companies. The course provides methodologies, strategies, and tools structured around the basic steps of the innovation process: 1. Opportunity Identification / Idea Generation, 2. Design, 3. Testing, and 4. Launch. Think Bigger What is a big idea? Where does it come from? In Think Bigger, students wrestle with these questions and more, so they can start to think big about how to approach problem-solving. Students develop the skills they need to discover foreseeable and transformative ideas, and learn how to frame for solutions and articulate their value. They are challenged to be their most creative selves with hands-on experiential exercises (both inside and outside of the classroom) designed to take them through the processes of discovering, ideating, evaluating, and editing ideas. All students receive direct feedback and coaching from influential business minds (entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, leaders, et al.) from across New York City. The course culminates in a final "big idea" pitch in front of a distinguished panel of successful minds from across the city. Sidebar Content Like on Facebook Follow on Twitter Connect on LinkedIn [email protected] Course Planner startups.columbia.edu Alumni Newsletter Sign up for our Alumni Newsletter for news and updates about our Lang programs, events, and resources. Subscribe to Alumni Newsletter Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top