Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu MBA Business is evolving fast. Stay one step ahead. MBA Academics Curriculum Core Curriculum Electives Dual Degree Programs Academic Divisions, Centers, & Programs Academic Calendar Faculty Academic Support Degree Requirements Student Life Student Organizations Leadership Groups Clubs Events Family-Friendly Events International Students Diversity Black Business Students Association Cluster Q (LGBTQ) Columbia Women in Business Hispanic Business Association Military in Business Association The Culture of NYC Campus The Neighborhood Explore NYC Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Options and Deadlines Deferred Enrollment Program J-Term 3-Year JD/MBA Consortium Application Requirements Review Process Events Class Visit Program Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply? Contact the Admissions Team Contact a Student Tuition & Financial Aid Fellowships Scholarships Military and Veterans Loans University Employees More Jump to main content Overview The Columbia MBA prepares you today to lead in the rapidly changing business world of tomorrow. Our comprehensive and forward-looking curriculum builds the foundation for success in all fields while offering deep insights into specific industries. With unmatched access to business as it unfolds, plus a vital community of diverse thinkers, graduates leave here informed, adaptive, and ready to solve real-world business challenges with innovative solutions. The Columbia Advantage Academics Enroll at Columbia Business School and experience the power of knowledge. Our 150 full-time faculty are transforming business strategies across the globe. Joining them are more than 20 Executives in Residence and over 100 adjunct faculty practitioners who come from leading corporations to share their wealth of experience. Informed in real time by the quickly shifting business landscape, they teach a transformative and ever-evolving curriculum that empowers graduates to create opportunities in any industry. Theory Meets Practice No other top MBA program offers our level of real-world exposure. At Columbia Business School, we immerse students in business by connecting their classroom education to the board rooms, trading floors, and retail stores where theory is put into practice. Through top-tier internship and externship programs, students apply their learnings to help an array of companies with finance, investing, marketing, data analytics, and product development. Access Rooted in New York City, students have unmatched access to top leaders of industry — in the classroom, throughout the city, and around the globe. Be inspired by guest lecturers, a multitude of speakers, and our Executives in Residence program as we bring immediately applicable insights to campus daily. In fact, more business leaders visit our campus than any other top-tier business school. And with a highly-engaged global alumni network of 48,000+ strong, you’re never far from a Columbia Business School connection. Community Take one look around our campus and you’ll see the world reflected in our culture and the content of our work. Students come to Columbia Business School from 90 countries, and bring with them every kind of business perspective. Whether you arrive from across the globe or on a crosstown bus, your student experience will be defined by much more than coursework. Take part in campus traditions, community service, and student organizations that reflect a full spectrum of backgrounds and interests. Here, you'll find a remarkably tight-knit, supportive community to help you succeed. Career Resources Our Career Management Center (CMC) is here to help you learn the building blocks of career management — preparing you not only for your first job after graduation, but for a lifetime of success in the private, public, and nonprofit sectors. Find support from a range of CMC resources to aid your search for internships and full-time employment. By taking advantage of one-on-one sessions with your advisors and formulating individual job-search strategies — as well as garnering tactical advice from workshops and events — you'll be well-prepared to navigate the job-search process. Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Every business and community is stronger when we include diverse voices. That's why Columbia Business School is committed to promoting diversity in all its forms by making sure those from all racial, ethnic, socioeconomic, and professional backgrounds feel welcomed and represented in our community. The School's Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Initiative, led by the Vice Dean of DEI, monitors and makes recommendations pertaining to the Initiative's three pillars of Community Diversity, Curriculum and Classroom Inclusion, and Culture and Climate. Meanwhile, a Standing Committee — comprising students, faculty, and staff — creates relevant campus and community programming. Our New Manhattanville Home After proudly calling Uris Hall home for more than half a century, we’re excited to embark on a whole new era. We recently moved to our new home on our Manhattanville campus. Filled with light, leading technology, and open spaces that promote innovation and connection, our new facilities are a center for groundbreaking research, world-class education, and interdisciplinary collaboration. By the numbers Class size 782 Thousand Alumni 48 Full-time faculty 152 Events Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels