Partnership Opportunities Research Initiatives Student-Run Events Fellowships and Scholarships Corporate and Foundation Partners Speak at the School Silfen Leadership Series Student Activities Contact Us Directory Corporate and Foundation Relations Partnership Opportunities Research Initiatives Student-Run Events Fellowships and Scholarships Corporate and Foundation Partners Speak at the School Silfen Leadership Series Student Activities Contact Us Corporate and Foundation Relations » Partnership Opportunities Partnership Opportunities Main menu Partnership Opportunities Research Initiatives Student-Run Events Fellowships and Scholarships Corporate and Foundation Partners Speak at the School Contact Us Your corporation or foundation will benefit in innumerable ways from a partnership with Columbia Business School. Take advantage of branding opportunities within our community, including the Annual Dinner, our largest and most high-profile fundraising event of the year, and our international reunions, gatherings of our vibrant alumni network held every three years in Europe or Asia. By getting to know our current students, you can also develop a pipeline to recruit the next generation of talented business leaders. And by partnering with our faculty members on cutting-edge research, you can drive your industry forward. Here are just a few opportunities for your firm to connect with Columbia Business School: Student-Run Events Our ambitious student clubs host conferences and recruiting events throughout the academic year, giving your firm dozens of chances to participate in or sponsor their initiatives. Learn more. Fellowships and Sponsorships Tuition support is invaluable to the School, allowing us to make an elite business education available to all qualified individuals. Contribute and build a powerful relationship with our community. Learn more. Research Initiatives The groundbreaking research conducted by our world-class faculty members wouldn’t be possible without the support of our corporate and foundation partners. Help move your firm’s field ahead. Learn more. Sidebar Content Make a Gift Download our Partnership Guide Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top