Graduation Information Schedule Awards Distinguished Speaker For Students For Friends and Family After Graduation Graduation Graduation Information Schedule Awards Distinguished Speaker For Students For Friends and Family After Graduation Graduation » Graduation Information Graduation Information Main menu Graduation Information Schedule Awards Distinguished Speaker For Students For Friends and Family After Graduation During Commencement Week, each school hosts its own Ceremony — for the Business School this is the Recognition Ceremony — to individually recognize graduates for their successful completion of requirements. This event will feature a notable speaker along with remarks from various members of the CBS community. Full-Time MBA Reconition Ceremony Sunday, May 15, 2022 8:00 a.m. - 10:15 a.m. South Lawn, Morningside Campus Full-Time MBA Reception Sunday, May 15, 2022 10:15 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Ancel Plaza, Morningside Campus In addition to the Business School Recognition ceremony, students are encouraged to participate in the Columbia University Commencement ceremony, which is a centuries-old tradition in which the University President grants degrees en masse to graduating students from all schools, colleges, and affiliated institutions. During this ceremony, other remarkable members of the Columbia community are also recognized through the conferring of medals, awards, and honorary degrees.Please visit the Commencement website for updates and details regarding this year’s virtual ceremony. Columbia University Commencement Ceremony Wednesday, May 18, 2022 10:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Low Plaza and South Lawn, Morningside Campus, rain or shine The date of the Executive MBA Recognition Ceremony varies depending on the EMBA track, and ceremonies are held several times throughout the year. Regardless of the timing of your specific EMBA Recognition Ceremony, all graduating Columbia Business School students are invited to participate in the University Commencement ceremony. Sidebar Content Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top