Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Directions Hotels Contact Our Office Other Career Offices Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Training at the Very Center of Business Student Body at a Glance Entrepreneurial-Minded Employment Reports Contact Us Contact Recruiting Columbia Business School Students Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Directions Hotels Contact Our Office Other Career Offices Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Training at the Very Center of Business Student Body at a Glance Entrepreneurial-Minded Employment Reports Contact Us Recruiting Columbia Business School Students » How Do I Recruit? » On-Campus Recruiting » Recruiting Policies Recruiting Policies list-style-none Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Recruiting Events Visiting Campus Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Employment Reports Contact Us Columbia Business School’s recruiting policies strive to provide a fair recruiting process for all companies and students and apply to all companies that engage with the School regardless of whether recruiting takes place on or off campus. This applies to all companies that post jobs and that engage with student clubs, as well. Full-Time Recruiting A full-time hire is an important decision in the future of your organization. Our students are prepared to meet the challenge. Learn more about our full-time recruiting guidelines → Internship Recruiting Summer internships are great for both our students and the companies that employ them. Students get firsthand experience in a field of interest, while firms get an early chance to evaluate future leaders in the field. Learn more about the internship recruiting process → Recruiter Conduct Policies Each recruiting organization must acknowledge compliance with Columbia Business School’s recruiting policies as outlined in this guide and/or online, including the nondiscrimination policy, by approving the policy form when prompted upon signing in to COIN. Please distribute these policies to everyone at your firm involved in recruiting. Companies that are part of the formal interview process but hold interviews off campus are subject to the same policies and guidelines as those that conduct interviews on campus. Policy Infractions Violations of recruiting policies covering events, interviews and/or employment offers will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Sanctions facing recruiting organizations may include, but are not limited to: Lodging a formal letter of complaint with senior management and/or senior Columbia Business School alumni detailing the offense and placing the company on immediate probation. Precluding the firm from one or all of the following: Access to the Columbia Business School résumé database Access to the School’s on-campus recruiting program Receiving preferential interview and corporate presentation dates on campus Communicating the nature of the violation to the Columbia Business School community through the student-facing COIN homepage for a period of three years. Students are also subject to a set of internal recruiting policies and sanctions. Sidebar Content Post a Job Log Into COIN Make a Gift Have a Question? Just contact us. Related Content 2022-2023 Recruiter's Guide Full-Time Recruiting Policies Internship Recruiting Policies Corporate Presentation Policies Directions to Campus Full-Time MBA Recruiting Target full-time students for summer internships and full-time opportunities. Download Guide → Experienced-Level Recruiting Target a diverse group of professionals with 5-10 years of experience or more. Download Guide → Masters of Science Recruiting Connect with students who are focused on Financial Economics, Marketing or Accounting and Fundamental Analysis. Download Guide → International Student Recruiting Target students from abroad with diverse backgrounds. Download Guide → skinny-block Quick Links Post a Job → Login to COIN → Order Resume Books → Contact Us → Other Columbia Career Offices → skinny-block Recruiting Calendars Full-Time → Internship → three-block Campus Map and Directions Columbia Business School is located on the University’s Manhattanville campus on W 130th St between Broadway and Riverside Drive. Employment Report 2021 2021 Employment Report Learn more about the diverse career paths of our MBA students. Download Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top