About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom Directory The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise About Message from Co-directors Founder's Message In Memoriam - Rachel Jacobs '02 Ray Horton Social Enterprise Fund Racial Equity and Social Enterprise Program Brochure Faculty & Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Events Social Enterprise Conference, Capital for Good Awards Breakfast Events Archive Event Listing and Series Photos Videos Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Careers Resources Social Enterprise Areas Social Enterprise Summer Fellowships Loan Assistance Program Recruiting Morgan Stanley Sustainable Investing Fellowship Scholarships and Other Fellowships Student Clubs Consulting Projects IDCP Travel Fund Student Papers Volunteering Resources Social Ventures Tamer Fund for Social Ventures Spark: A space for social innovators to combine ideas with networks Social Venture Innovators Social Venture Advisory Network Research Case Studies Faculty Viewpoints 2022 Climate Business & Investment Conference 2021 Climate Science & Investment Conference 2019 Climate Science & Investment Conference Are Americans Primarily Suffering from Income Inequality or Lack of Opportunity? Diagnosing the Problem and Proposing Solutions Northeast Workshop on Energy Policy and Environmental Economics 2018 Climate Science & Investment Conference The Near-term Impacts of Climate Change on Investors Solutions to Post-Incarceration Employment and Entrepreneurship Fulfilling the Promise of Education Technology Managing Schools to Improve Teacher Performance The Economics and Psychology of Poverty Measuring and Creating Excellence in Schools The American Healthcare Landscape in 2014 Microfinance Symposium Research Resources Connections Nonprofit Board Leadership Program NBLP Projects Student Information Organizational Information Alumni Ambassadors Join a Network Alumni Profiles Columbia University Initiatives ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Climate Change and Business Program Capital for Good Program & Podcast Newsroom The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise » Courses » Executive Education » Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals list-style-none About Courses Elective Courses Executive Education Senior Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Developing Leaders Program for Nonprofit Professionals Experiential Learning Social Ventures Research Connections Initiatives Newsroom APPLY DOWNLOAD BROCHURE CONTACT US People devoted to working in the nonprofit sector often require specialized professional knowledge and skills, but may not have received training in leadership and management. Managers, in particular, are in the unique position of overseeing others while also answering to their organization’s leadership. The intensive, two-week, modular Developing Leaders Program addresses both of these challenges. The program prepares high-potential nonprofit managers to support their organization’s mission by exposing them to key management concepts and providing tools to better navigate their position within the organization. Date: To be announced Format: Two weeks over two months with live online sessions from 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. ET View last year's live online schedule → Module Dates: Module 1: To be announced Module 2: To be announced Read the latest Covid-related protocols at Columbia Business School → Admission Deadline: To be announced Please have an updated resume, a personal statement as to why you would like to attend this program at this time in your career, and your organization’s 990 form ready to upload to the application. Additional Info: Certificate Credits: 6 (learn more) Tuition assistance may be available. *2022 program dates are subject to change. Overview Impact Program Structure Participant Profile & Testimonials Faculty FAQ Partners Questions? Contact Gwen Shufro ’06, director, at [email protected]. "The program provided much-needed awareness and supported me with evidence-based frameworks and tools to directly apply my knowledge. The caliber of each presenter far exceeded my expectations and I am grateful for how available and open each faculty member was even after their session. The greatest value is the community of professionals in the nonprofit space that I had the honor to learn from." – Past Participant Saskia Op den Bosch, Assistant Director at SEO Scholars The program offers formal training in fundamental elements of strategic management and covers such critical skills as the planning and implementing of organizational change, negotiating effectively, and increasing one’s self-awareness. Through dynamic lectures, hands-on exercises, small-group work, one-on-one executive coaching, 360-degree leadership feedback, and peer discussions, participants integrate management fundamentals with real-world applications. The peer network created during the Developing Leaders Program becomes an invaluable source of continued support in the nonprofit sector. By the time participants have completed the program, they will have a greater awareness of their leadership and management style, as well as additional skills that all rising talent need to succeed. During the two-week program, participants will learn how to: Balance leader and manager roles and responsibilities Use mission and vision to set strategic program and departmental priorities and make change actually happen Develop skills and methods for effective delegation and performance management Understand and recognize leadership and communication styles of oneself and others Manage the mission under fiscal constraints Build effective marketing programs for generating public awareness and support Acquire essential skills for negotiating and conflict resolution Become more self-aware of one's managerial style, en route to becoming a more effective leader Upon completion of this program, you will earn six credits towards a certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more. The program takes place in a modular format, with two one-week modules over the course of two months. The modular format allows for real-time testing of learnings and ideas. Participants in the Developing Leaders Program are exposed to the fundamentals of strategic management that they can immediately put into practice. Learning is reinforced through lectures, discussions, and small-group work. Sample sessions include: Making Change Happen Self-Management and Leadership Groups and Diversity Negotiation in the Workplace These sessions are complemented by integral assessments and tools such as individual executive coaching sessions, a change implementation survey, and 360-degree leadership feedback. 360 Degree Feedback One source of learning during the program is the multi-rater assessment, also known as 360-degree feedback. Before the program, participants, as well as their peers, direct reports, and managers, will assess the participant's leadership style. This process enables participants to develop a rich picture of how they are seen, and provides them with the opportunity to enhance their managerial effectiveness. Participants will be coached during the program to develop a plan that is responsive to the feedback. Read a sample 360-degree assessment. Hear more about the 360-degree leadership feedback from the faculty director: For a complete program schedule, download the agenda. Created for rising leaders in nonprofit organizations, this two-week program prepares managers to support their organization's overarching goals. Participants learn the fundamentals of strategic management, including using financial data for decision making, understanding conflict management and negotiations, and leading change. Hear From Past Participants: Latasha Wright Latasha Wright Chief Scientist & Executive Vice President at BioBus, Inc. "The Developing Leaders Program exceeded my expectations. This program gave me the space and opportunity to elevate my thinking about our organizational practices and norms. I have no doubt that the training that I received will be instrumental in bringing our nonprofit to the next level in leadership training and management effectiveness." Damon Bailey Damon Bailey Community Development Advisor at Purpose Built Communities "I came into this program unsure about what I would learn. I'm leaving here feeling much clearer and optimistic about my unique ability to lead in my organization. This program provided me with a chance to explore my leadership alongside others and provided me with content and tools to support my evolving leadership and increased organizational effectiveness. I would recommend this program to anyone." Georgina Emerson Georgina Emerson Founder and Director at Teach About Women "The Developing Leaders Program gave me the interpersonal tools necessary for thriving in my new role as a manager. The faculty blended common sense with effective frameworks for working with others and being my best professional self." Natasha Ramirez Natasha Ramirez Senior Manager at the Student Leadership Network "I truly loved this program. Not only did I receive a lot of insight into myself and my leadership style, but also how others see me and how best to use those skills in group dynamics and for the greater organization. I truly appreciated the expertise of the faculty and their presentations. It was a wonderful experience that I didn't want to end." Latasha Wright Latasha Wright "The Developing Leaders Program exceeded my expectations. Damon Bailey Damon Bailey "I came into this program unsure about what I would learn. Georgina Emerson Georgina Emerson "The Developing Leaders Program gave me the interpersonal tools necessary for thriving in my new role as a manager. Natasha Ramirez Natasha Ramirez "I truly loved this program. Typical Participant Mix Participants of the program have come from the following organizations: Bottom Line Brooklyn Navy Yard Center for Employment Opportunities Children's Aid Society City Harvest DREAM East Side House Goddard Riverside Community Center Good Shepherd Services Graham Windham Lenox Hill Neighborhood House New Visions for Public School Sunnyside Community Services Uncommon Schools Year Up Youth Represent Joel Brockner, Faculty Director Phillip Hettleman Professor of Business Joel Brockner is a leading authority on a variety of psychological issues in the workplace, including change management, leadership, decision-making, the role of the self, and cross-cultural differences in work behavior. He has consulted about the planning and implementation of significant organizational change, leadership development, and decision making with such organizations as the Association of Art Museum Curators, Canadian Health Services Research Foundation, Citigroup, ConocoPhillips, Eastman Kodak, IXIS Capital Markets, MBNA, Pfizer, State Farm Insurance, Southern New England Telephone, and Stratus Technologies. Brockner?s book publications cover decision making in "sunk cost" situations, causes and consequences of employees? self esteem, and the role of justice in the workplace. He has published more than 100 articles and book chapters in a variety of prestigious outlets, including Harvard Business Review and the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. He has served on the editorial board of numerous management and psychology journals including the Academy of Management Journal, the Academy of Management Review, Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, and the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. Brockner is a fellow of the Academy of Management and of the American Psychological Association (Division of Industrial and Organizational Psychology). He served as the chairman of the management division from 2005 to 2011 at Columbia Business School. Along with Professor Brockner, additional Columbia Business School faculty contribute to and teach in the program, including: Mabel Abraham Assistant Professor Robert N. Bontempo Adjunct Professor of Business Caryn Block Professor of Psychology and Education Sarah J. Brazaitis Associate Professor of Practice, Teachers College, Columbia University William Duggan Senior Lecturer in Business Sheena S. Iyengar S. T. Lee Professor of Business Michel Tuan Pham Kravis Professor of Business Valerie Purdie Greenaway Associate Professor in the Department of Psychology at Columbia University 1. What is the timing of the admission process? Applications are reviewed the week following the application due date. Admission and scholarship decisions will be made to curate this year’s cohort, and decision notifications will be sent to all participants via email. Please review the 2021 key dates and deadlines here. 2. What is the program schedule? The program runs in a two-week modular format over two months. In addition, there will be a one-on-coaching session scheduled between the two modules. Please view the full schedule here. 3. Is financial assistance available? As part of our commitment to the nonprofit sector, the Programs in Social Enterprise at Columbia Business School Executive Education offer three types of tuition assistance. Though tuition assistance is not guaranteed, we do our best to provide financial support whenever possible. Applicants can only receive one form of tuition assistance; they cannot be combined. Upon acceptance to the program, applicants will be notified of the amount of tuition assistance they are being awarded. In addition to the full criteria listed on the 2021 tuition assistance guidelines download, please note the following: Applicants must be full-time employees of a nonprofit or social enterprise Applicants must apply and be accepted into the program before tuition assistance is determined Scholarships are allocated on a sliding scale, based on the need of the organization Full scholarships are not available Applicants can only receive one form of tuition assistance; they cannot be combined Please review the complete 2021 tuition assistance guidelines before requesting tuition assistance. 4. Who typically attends the program? The program is designed for high-potential nonprofit leaders who, with additional training and experience, will assume greater responsibility and more senior roles. 5. How many people attend the program? The program typically has between 80 and 100 participants. 6. Do you accept non-US applicants? We welcome applicants from around the world. Applicants should be sufficiently proficient in English both verbally and in writing at a graduate-school level. 7. Do I receive a certificate at the end of the program? Everyone who successfully completes the program receives a certificate of completion. They will also gain six days toward their Certificate in Business Excellence, granting various Columbia Business School alumni benefits. 8. I still have questions. How can I find help? Contact Gwen Shufro ’06, director, at [email protected]. We are grateful for the support of our foundation partners: Booth Ferris Foundation Centerbridge Foundation Clark Foundation Columbia Community Service Miami Foundation Tiger Foundation Tote Board Robin Hood Foundation Pinkerton Foundation Nonprofit New York Excellence Awards Real Time Grantmaking Award Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top