Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Directions Hotels Contact Our Office Other Career Offices Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Training at the Very Center of Business Student Body at a Glance Entrepreneurial-Minded Employment Reports Contact Us Contact Recruiting Columbia Business School Students Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Schedule Options Request Dates Student Policies Recruiting Events Presentation Calendar & Policies Request and Schedule Events Facility & A/V Rental Summer Events Visiting Campus Directions Hotels Contact Our Office Other Career Offices Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Interns Analysts Associates & Managers Senior Managers Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Training at the Very Center of Business Student Body at a Glance Entrepreneurial-Minded Employment Reports Contact Us Recruiting Columbia Business School Students » How Do I Recruit? » On-Campus Recruiting » Interview Policies » Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies list-style-none Post a Job How Do I Recruit? Post a Job Résumé Databases On-Campus Recruiting Interview Policies Full-Time Recruiting Calendar & Policies Internship Recruiting Calendar & Policies Interview Logistics Recruiting Events Visiting Campus Work with Clubs Spread the Word International Hiring and STEM Designation Acceptable Interview Practices Grade Non-Disclosure Who Can I Recruit? Why Recruit Columbia Talent? Employment Reports Contact Us Job Descriptions Upload job descriptions in COIN before your corporate presentation in the fall or one month before the position's application deadline, at the latest. Best Practice: Upload job descriptions to COIN as early as possible before your company presentation and be very detailed regarding the position’s function, requirements, location, and work authorization to ensure that you receive the most prepared candidates. If job descriptions are uploaded late (less than one month prior to the application deadline) or are ambiguous, companies may be disappointed in application numbers. Application Due Dates Applications must be solicited through COIN for all positions companies will recruit for on campus. Companies may require additional means of application if they wish; this information may also be communicated to candidates through COIN. Application deadlines generally default to 9 a.m. ET one week before the invitation-list due date. Interview Policies Firms may conduct a full-time interview with a Columbia Business School Class of 2023 student, at their earliest convenience, provided the allotted time does not conflict with a student’s academic commitments. Interviews taking place on campus begin Monday, October 3, 2022. Recruiters must advise the CMC of plans to hold first-round interviews to avoid significant recruiting conflicts. This notice must include the number of candidates to be seen and the expected duration of interviews. Companies should offer an alternate date and time for second-round and/or out-of-town interviews for students with scheduling conflicts. Interviews (on or off campus) may not take place during blackout dates. Companies choosing to interview students on Friday evenings or weekends must be prepared to accommodate students who request an alternate day for religious reasons. Companies should update candidates of their status within two weeks of interviews taking place. Interview Blackout Periods Students should not be asked to interview during exam and blackout periods. There are also event blackout dates to keep in mind when planning your recruiting schedule: Independence Day holiday July 4 Final exams July 6-8 Labor Day September 5 Rosh Hashanah September 26-27 Yom Kippur October 4-5 Midterm exams October 17-21 — full-time interviews allowed Election Day holiday November 4-8 Thanksgiving holiday November 23–25 Study Days/Final Exams December 12–23 Winter Break December 24-January 3 Martin Luther King Jr. Day January 16 Midterm exams and Spring break March 6-17 Final exams May 1-12 Commencement May 17 Offers for Full-Time Positions Full-time offers, including those to summer interns, must be held open until Friday, November 4, 2022, or for three weeks, whichever is later. The fundamental terms of an offer must remain unchanged until the expiration date, although incentives encouraging students to commit before the deadline are permitted, so long as incentives are small relative to the overall value of the offer and the incentive is aligned with the spirit of the recruiting process (e.g. group-specific offers which may convert to generalist offers). Companies should not make conditional offers or ask questions implying a conditional offer—for example, “If we made you an offer, would you accept it?” Student feedback indicates that this makes firms appear desperate and lacking confidence in the recruiting process. Furthermore, conditional offers do not allow students time to consider their options. Hiring organizations should inform students of their status and/or timeline for decisions within two weeks of their interviews, regardless of outcome. The rescinding of a verbal or written job offer, unless done under extenuating circumstances such as unforeseen business conditions or egregious student behavior, is a very serious violation of Columbia Business School recruiting policy and will be handled accordingly. Delayed start dates of an extended period may be considered rescinded offers as well. Sanctions against firms in violation of this policy will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Any organization considering rescinding an offer or delaying a start date should first contact Dan Gabriel, Director of Employer Relations. Students who accept offers verbally or in writing and then renege on that commitment have violated recruiting policy and the Columbia Business School Honor Code. Sanctions will be considered on a case-by-case basis and will include disciplinary action, which may result in the suspension of recruiting privileges and/or a requirement to appear before the Dean’s Disciplinary Committee. Click here for Internship Offer Policies. Pre-interview Dinners and Sell Days Pre-interview events the night before interviews are generally not allowed. Exceptions may be made for companies traveling from outside the New York tri-state area. Please consult your firm’s account manager about your company’s circumstances. Sell events should never conflict with academic commitments and are therefore best held on Fridays or Saturdays. Additionally, firms may not invite students to sell events or other post-interview events until offers have been extended. Sidebar Content Post a Job Log Into COIN Make a Gift Have a Question? Just contact us. Related Content 2022-2023 Recruiter's Guide Full-Time Recruiting Policies Internship Recruiting Policies Corporate Presentation Policies Directions to Campus Full-Time MBA Recruiting Target full-time students for summer internships and full-time opportunities. Download Guide → Experienced-Level Recruiting Target a diverse group of professionals with 5-10 years of experience or more. Download Guide → Masters of Science Recruiting Connect with students who are focused on Financial Economics, Marketing or Accounting and Fundamental Analysis. Download Guide → International Student Recruiting Target students from abroad with diverse backgrounds. Download Guide → skinny-block Quick Links Post a Job → Login to COIN → Order Resume Books → Contact Us → Other Columbia Career Offices → skinny-block Recruiting Calendars Full-Time → Internship → three-block Campus Map and Directions Columbia Business School is located on the University’s Manhattanville campus on W 130th St between Broadway and Riverside Drive. Employment Report 2021 2021 Employment Report Learn more about the diverse career paths of our MBA students. Download Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top