About The Lang Leadership Team Lang Center Advisory Board and Lang Fund Board Faculty Advisory Board Curriculum Students Launch Lang Coach Office Hours Entrepreneurship Research Resources Summer Startup Track Columbia Technology Founder’s Track (CTech) Columbia Build Lab Entrepreneurial Greenhouse Program Lang Fund Invest Columbia Venture Fellows Summer Fellowship Program: VC Pitchbook Access Lang Coach Office Hours Join Summer Fellowship Program: Startups Events and Networking Lang Talks CBS Startups Week Fall Startup Showcase CBS Startup Alley at TechDay Alumni Networking Night Alumni Ideas Ideas in Entrepreneurship & Innovation Faculty Research PhD Fellowship Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories ===> CBS Academic Calendar ===> CAMPUS-WIDE ENTREPRENEURSHIP CALENDAR The Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center About The Lang Leadership Team Lang Center Advisory Board and Lang Fund Board Faculty Advisory Board Curriculum Students Launch Lang Coach Office Hours Entrepreneurship Research Resources Summer Startup Track Columbia Technology Founder’s Track (CTech) Columbia Build Lab Entrepreneurial Greenhouse Program Lang Fund Invest Columbia Venture Fellows Summer Fellowship Program: VC Pitchbook Access Lang Coach Office Hours Join Summer Fellowship Program: Startups Events and Networking Lang Talks CBS Startups Week Fall Startup Showcase CBS Startup Alley at TechDay Alumni Networking Night Alumni Ideas Ideas in Entrepreneurship & Innovation Faculty Research PhD Fellowship Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories The Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center » » Summer Fellowship Program Summer Fellowship Program list-style-none About Curriculum Students Launch Invest Join Summer Fellowship Program: Startups Events and Networking Alumni Ideas Cross-Campus CBS Startup Stories About Important Dates Eligibility Apply FAQs About the Lang Summer Fellowship Program Working for an early stage company or a small VC firm this summer? Apply to the Lang Summer Fellowship Program and you may qualify for a salary supplement. Our Summer Fellowship Program enables rising second-year CBS students to gain experience working as Student Fellows in an early-stage company or VC environment over the summer while obtaining a salary supplement from the Lang Center. Student Fellows will contribute expertise to their host organizations. Employers are expected to construct a worthwhile summer experience for the Fellow. Back to Top Important Dates Applications for Summer Fellowship Startups and VC are closed. Please do not apply until you have obtained an offer from a qualifying startup or VC firm. Submitting an application, even if it meets all requirements, does not guarantee acceptance to this program. All decisions are final. Back to Top Program Guidelines Note that meeting the guidelines outlined below does not guarantee acceptance to the Program. What qualifies as a host company? Host startup companies: Are operational and funded/financed Have at least five, but fewer than 200, employees Generate under $25M in revenue Consulting, research, brokerage, or investment funds/companies do not qualify Host VC firms: Have < $50mm in assets under management Have between two and five full-time investors Fellowship must be full-time, defined as a minimum of 35 hours per week, for 8 to 12 weeks One stipend is given per company, per summer (subject to discussion) What are the host company’s responsibilities? Company to pay a minimum of $400 per week (subject to discussion) Student Fellow responsibilities must be clearly defined by employer up front One host company senior executive must mentor and work with Student Fellow on a regular basis Operational function or exposure to operational functions preferred At the end of the Fellowship, the host company may be asked to provide feedback about the Program and the Student Fellow’s impact on the organization What are the Student Fellow requirements? As interest is expected to exceed availability, we look for students who meet the following criteria. However, all applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Must be a Columbia Business School student who will have completed at least one term of MBA courses by summer and will return to CBS after the internship. Students on leave of absence from CBS during the summer internship are NOT eligible. Applicants must have a full-time (8 to 12 week, at least 35 hours per week) summer position offer with eligible organization before applying for Fellowship Preference will be given to students who have demonstrated interest in careers in VC or entrepreneurial environments through course selection, participation in clubs, fall and spring term internships, etc. Students may NOT apply for the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise Grant concurrently with the Lang Center Summer Fellowship Students may NOT receive course credit for their summer internship AND receive the supplement/stipend from the Lang Center at the same time Part-time internships during the summer are not eligible for funding. Students Fellows are expected to work minimum 35 hours per week. Accepted Fellows must complete the full term of their internship in order to qualify for funds Mini-Fellowships: January-term and EMBA students enrolled in courses during summer semester are eligible to receive funding for mini-fellowships lasting 2 weeks or more, if funds are still available. Mini-fellowships might involve performing market segmentation, conducting independent budget or financial plan analysis, researching an investment thesis, etc. Students participating in mini-fellowships are subject to identical guidelines, responsibilities, and expectations as other Student Fellows, and should use the application below. What funds are available? The Center may match the student's salary up to a ceiling of a total salary of $1,000 per week during the summer period. For example*: If student earns $400 per week, Center may match this minimum required amount of $400 per week, resulting in a total compensation of $800 per week If student earns $500 per week, Center may contribute up to $500 per week, resulting in a total compensation of $1,000 per week If student earns $600 per week, Center may contribute up to $400 per week, resulting in a total compensation of $1,000 per week If student earns $700 per week, Center may contribute up to $300 per week, resulting in a total compensation of $1,000 per week If student earns $800 per week, Center may contribute up to $200 per week to reach the ceiling amount and total compensation of $1,000 per week Maximum payout from school to be $4,000 total (taxable) for the summer for each selected student Unpaid internships at startups are not eligible. If pursuing an unpaid internship, please use this financial benefit information to help negotiate a salary / stipend. You may also use the financial benefit information to negotiate a higher salary. *Please note, the above numbers are shared to guide your negotiated salary amount as it relates to what the Lang Center may supplement. Actual numbers of what the Center may supplement will vary depending on budget remaining and your negotiated salary, which must be capped at $1000/wk in total compensation from the employer and the Lang Center. Back to Top Questions? Contact [email protected]. Back to Top Sidebar Content Like on Facebook Follow on Twitter Connect on LinkedIn [email protected] Course Planner startups.columbia.edu Alumni Newsletter Sign up for our Alumni Newsletter for news and updates about our Lang programs, events, and resources. Subscribe to Alumni Newsletter Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top