Skip to Main Content Wyss Institute Menu Search Site How We Work Technologies Collaboration Team News Search News New cancer vaccine delivers double punch to tumors News Northpond Labs funds second Wyss research project News Wyss Technologies Top Harvard's 2022 PIC News Wyss Welcomes New Associate Faculty Natalie Artzi technology Tough Gel Adhesives for Wound Healing technology SomaCode: Getting cell therapies where they nee... Discoveries can't change the world if they don't leave the lab The Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering uses biological design principles to develop new engineering innovations that will transform medicine and create a more sustainable world. Inspired by Nature At the Wyss Institute, we leverage recent insights into how Nature builds, controls and manufactures to develop new engineering innovations - a new field of research we call Biologically Inspired Engineering. By emulating biological principles of self assembly, organization and regulation, we are developing disruptive technology solutions for healthcare, energy, architecture, robotics, and manufacturing, which are translated into commercial products and therapies through formation of new startups and corporate alliances. We have 8 major Focus Areas. Bioinspired Therapeutics & Diagnostics Therapeutic discovery and diagnostics development enabled by microsystems engineering, molecular engineering, computational design, and organ-on-a-chip in vitro human experimentation technology. Diagnostics Accelerator An initiative enabling the creation of new diagnostic technologies that solve high-value clinical problems through deep collaboration between the Wyss Institute and Brigham and Women’s Hospital. Candidate diagnostics will be driven by clinicians’ unmet needs, advanced in the Wyss Institute’s biomarker discovery and technology development labs, and validated in BWH’s CLIA lab, providing crucial clinical data to move them from the bench to the bedside faster. Immuno-Materials Material-based systems capable of modulating immune cells ex vivo and in the human body to treat or diagnose disease. Living Cellular Devices Re-engineered living cells and biological circuits as programmable devices for medicine, manufacturing and sustainability. Molecular Robotics Self-assembling molecules that can be programmed like robots to carry out specific tasks without requiring power. 3D Organ Engineering Highly functional, multiscale, vascularized organ replacements that can be seamlessly integrated into the body. Predictive BioAnalytics Computational approaches that apply the power of machine learning, neural networks, and other algorithmic architectures to complex problems in biology, generating faster, better insights and driving innovation. Synthetic Biology Breakthrough approaches to reading, writing and editing nucleic acids and proteins for multiple applications, varying from healthcare to data storage. Our Translation Model Through our Innovation Funnel, we harness the creative freedom of academia to generate a pipeline of new ideas and potential breakthrough technologies; enable our staff with product development experience to prototype, mature and de-risk these technologies; and leverage our internal business development team, intellectual property experts, and entrepreneurs-in-residence to drive commercialization, through industrial partnerships, licensing agreements, and the creation of startups. Idea Generation There is no greater creative cauldron than the skunkworks of academia. We turbocharge it to fuel our technology pipeline. 1/5 Concept Refinement Ideas that pop up spontaneously in our labs are selected based on input from our staff with industrial experience and business development teams, as well as our strategic intellectual property group. Greater resources are provided to those technologies that survive through natural selection. 2/5 Technology Validation Technologies that have market potential are initially de-risked. Teams leverage technical, business development, and intellectual property expertise at the Institute to start moving projects from the benchtop toward the market. 3/5 Technology Optimization Technologies with the greatest potential value and ability to bring about transformative change are further de-risked technically and commercially by our multi-faceted collaborative teams, increasing their likelihood of succeed in the market. 4/5 Commercialization Our Entrepreneurs-in-Residence or other members of our business development team engage investors and industrial partners, and working with Harvard’s Office of Technology Development, negotiate license agreements and launch new startups. 5/5 Next Prev Publications 0 Patent Filings 0 Licenses 0 Startups 0 Collaboration at a Higher Level Our scientists, engineers and clinicians, who come from Harvard's Schools of Medicine, Engineering, Arts & Sciences, and Design as well as 12 collaborating academic institutions and hospitals, work alongside staff with industrial experience in product development to engineer transformative solutions to some of the world’s greatest problems. Next Prev Want to know more? News Technologies Startups and Licensing Join Us Subscribe to our e-mail updates Enter your e-mail address Enter your e-mail address Newsletter type All News Events Subscribe Contact Careers Events Multimedia Resources Publications Impact Report Wiki Login Wyss Institute Center for Life Science Bldg. 3 Blackfan Circle Boston, MA 02115 Map and directions facebook twitter linkedin instagram vimeo soundcloud © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | Hansjörg Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering at Harvard University Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Accessibility Report Copyright Infringement 2017 Webby Awards Winner Close search results How We Work Technologies Collaboration Team News Contact Careers Events Multimedia Resources Publications Impact Report Wiki Login Close menu Disruptive innovation inspired by Nature