Skip to Main Content Yale College 1 Announcements Find Information about COVID-19 ﻿ Search & Menu You are here: Home Get to Know Yale College Directory Office of the Dean Directory You are here: Home Get to Know Yale College Directory Office of the Dean Directory The Yale College Dean’s Office (YCDO) is the administrative center of Yale College. It is comprised of the Dean of Yale College, the associate and assistant deans and directors, and their managerial and clerical staffs. The YCDO is charged by the corporation to administer the undergraduate academic course of study and a variety of special educational programs such as Directed Studies, the Special Divisional Majors, and the Academic Mentorship Program. The office is responsible for determining policies concerning student life, discipline, and extracurricular activities. It is also in charge of registering and overseeing all undergraduate organizations. The Dean’s Office supervises the deans of the twelve colleges and works in close collaboration with the heads of the colleges. Marvin M. Chun is Dean of Yale College and the Richard M. Colgate Professor of Psychology, with secondary appointments in the Cognitive Science Program and the Yale School of Medicine Department of Neuroscience. He leads a cognitive neuroscience laboratory that uses functional brain imaging to study how people see, attend, remember, and perform optimally. Chun’s research has been honored with several early-mid career awards, such as the Troland Research Award from the United States National Academy of Sciences, and the American Psychological Association Distinguished Scientific Award for an Early Career Contribution to Psychology. His undergraduate teaching of Introduction to Psychology, one of the largest classes in Yale College, has been recognized with both the Phi Beta Kappa William Clyde DeVane Medal for Distinguished Scholarship and Teaching in Yale College, and the Lex Hixon ‘63 Prize for Teaching Excellence in the Social Sciences. He served as the John B. Madden head of Berkeley College from 2007-2016. Chun’s research program is funded by the National Institutes of Health and the National Science Foundation, with over a hundred articles in journals such as Nature, Nature Neuroscience, Neuron, and the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. He is also the Chief Editor of the Cambridge Elements of Attention, a new series by Cambridge University Press, and an author of a new textbook on Cognitive Psychology, in contract with Oxford University Press. Office of the Dean Staff Marvin Chun Dean of Yale College, Richard M. Colgate Professor of Psychology and Professor of Neuroscience Email marvin.chun@yale.edu Telephone +1 (203) 432-2902 Address 1 Hillhouse Ave, New Haven, CT 06511-8241 David Caruso Senior Advisor Email david.caruso@yale.edu Telephone +1 (203) 432-8681 Address 55 Whitney Ave 2nd Floor, New Haven, CT 06510-8225 Alison Cole Senior Associate Dean for Development, External Affairs, and Special Projects Email alison.cole@yale.edu Telephone +1 (203) 432-9067 Address 157 Church St, New Haven, CT 06510-2100 Paul McKinley Senior Associate Dean of Strategic Initiatives and Communications, Yale College Email paul.mckinley@yale.edu Telephone +1 (203) 432-8236 Address 1 Hillhouse Ave, New Haven, CT 06511-8241 Yale College Footer Navigation Academics Communities Events Finances First-Year and New Student Resources Get to Know Yale College Getting Help Life at Yale Policies & Procedures Registration & Course Selection Residential Colleges Accessibility Privacy Feedback Directory Giving Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved What are you looking for? Search Submit Resources People Dates & Deadlines See all results Recently Visited Info For Navigation Students Faculty Staff Families Site Navigation Academics Communities Events Finances First-Year and New Student Resources Get to Know Yale College Getting Help Life at Yale Policies & Procedures Registration & Course Selection Residential Colleges Close Site Menu