Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Department of Music Home Calendar News People Faculty Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Introduction Frequently Asked Questions Supplementary Materials for Admission Placement Information Individual Instrument / Voice Lessons Independent Study/Senior Project Yale College Composition Seminar Shen Curriculum for Musical Theater Selected Course Offerings Composition Ethnomusicology Freshman Seminars Music History Music Technology Music Theory Musical Theater Performance The B.A./M.M. Program Prizes Abraham Beekman Cox Prize Bach Society Prize Beekman Cannon Friends Prize Selden Memorial Award Sharp Prize Sudler Arts Prize Wrexham Prize R.J.R. Cohen Fellowship Competitions Friends of Music Recital Competition YSO Composition Readings Competition Graduate Introduction Admissions Contact Information Alumni Placement Frequently Asked Questions Yale Graduate Music Symposium Graduate Seminars Joint Degree Programs Friends of Music About Contact Welcome Welcome! The Department of Music is the home of scholars and students who continue a tradition of study stretching back to the ancient world. One of the seven original liberal arts, music maintains a place in the university as a subject of broad and passionate interest to composers, historians, ethnomusicologists, performers, and theorists. At Yale, all of these form a community dedicated to furthering a knowledge and love of music. Using the abundant musical resources at Yale—which include graduate professional schools of Music, Art, and Drama, an Institute for Sacred Music, a renowned collection of historical instruments, and an exceptionally large library of scores, recordings, books, and original manuscripts—the Department of Music provides an extraordinarily rich musical environment unmatched by any other college or university. More information is provided in the About Us page. News Hannah Schiller Receives MacMillan Center Research Fellowship April 19, 2022 Hannah Schiller received a MacMillan Center Pre-Dissertation Research Fellowship to undertake archival research at the British Library this summer. She will primarily be... New Publication by Allison Chu April 4, 2022 Allison Chu, a third-year student in Yale’s Ph.D. program in Music History, has a new essay titled “Voicing Quietness: Madama Butterfly and the Perception of East Asian... Ginger Dellenbaugh Receives Research Fellowship at Beinecke Library March 1, 2022 Ginger Dellenbaugh has been named as a recipient of a Research Fellowship for Graduate Students from the Beinecke Library at Yale for the 2022-23 academic year. Dellenbaugh... Aditya Chander publishes article in Music Perception February 7, 2022 Aditya Chander recently published an article in the journal Music Perception (Volume 39, Issue 3). The article, which he co-authored with his collaborators from Stanford... Meet the FAS Faculty: Anna Zayaruznaya December 2, 2021 VIDEO: Listening to music that sounds strange. What can music teach us about the past and about ourselves? Yale music historian Anna Zayaruznaya challenges students to “... More news... Quick Links Yale College Arts YalMusT Lab Performance Opportunities Libraries and Collections Journal of Music Theory The Grant Hagan Society Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved