Skip to content Course Books Course Books Books New Releases Course Books Catalogues Publishing Partners View All Books Subjects Architecture Art Biography Business & Economics History Language Law Literary Collections Political Science Religion Science View All Subjects Series The Anchor Yale Bible Commentaries The Anchor Yale Bible Dictionary The Anchor Yale Bible Reference Library Black Lives Catwalk Jewish Lives The Margellos World Republic of Letters Why I Write Why X Matters Series Yale Drama Series Yale Series of Younger Poets View All Series Resources For Authors For Booksellers For Press/Media For Professors For Students Digital Products View All Resources About Us Mission & History Meet the Editors Careers Contact Us Close Menu X Advanced Search Yale Press Podcast The Yale University Press Podcast is a series of in-depth conversations with experts and authors on a range of topics including politics, history, science, art, and more for those who are intellectually curious. Jessica Holahan hosts discussions on all things art and architecture. Subscribe on: Apple Podcasts Stitcher Spotify SoundCloud Recent Episodes Ep. 88 – A New Take on Self-Taught Artists In this episode of the Yale University Press podcast, we talk to writer and curator Lisa Slominski about her new book, Nonconformers: A New History of Self-Taught Artists, and her goal of constructing a more nuanced history of the work of so-called “Outsider” artists from the early twentieth century to the present day. Subscribe on: Apple Podcasts Stitcher Spotify SoundCloud Ep. 87 – Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux, Reconsidered In this episode, we talk with Met curator Elyse Nelson and Columbia University associate professor and writer Wendy S. Walters about the exhibition Fictions of Emancipation: Carpeaux Recast and the related book, Fictions of Emancipation: Carpeaux’s Why Born Enslaved! Reconsidered. Subscribe on: Apple Podcasts Stitcher Spotify SoundCloud Ep. 86 – Surrealism Beyond Borders In this episode of our podcast, we talk with The Met’s Stephanie D’Alessandro and Tate Modern’s Matthew Gale, who are co-curators of the exhibition (and co-editors of the book) Surrealism Beyond Borders. The exhibition is currently on view at The Met, and will travel to Tate Modern in Febraury 2022. YaleUniversity · Surrealism Beyond Borders Subscribe on: Apple Podcasts Stitcher Spotify SoundCloud Ep. 85 – The Life and Art of Bob Thompson Listen to this conversation with Diana K. Tuite, the Katz Curator of Modern and Contemporary Art at the Colby College Museum of Art. Her exhibition Bob Thomson: This House Is Mine is currently on view at the Colby College Museum of Art, and we talk to her about the artist and the wonderful catalogue that accompanies the exhibition. YaleUniversity · The Life and Art of Bob Thompson Subscribe on: Apple Podcasts Stitcher Spotify SoundCloud Ep. 84 – Alma W. Thomas: Everything Is Beautiful Listen to this conversation with Chrysler Museum of Art curator Seth Feman and Columbus Museum curator Jonathan Frederick Walz — we discuss the art and life of the extraordinary American artist Alma Woodsey Thomas. Seth and Jonathan are co-curators of the major traveling exhibition Alma W. Thomas: Everything Is Beautiful and co-editors of the beautiful exhibition catalogue of the same title. YaleUniversity · Perspectives on the American Artist Alma W. Thomas Subscribe on: Apple Podcasts Stitcher Spotify SoundCloud Posts navigation 1 2 … 10 > Sign up for updates on new releases and special offers SUBSCRIBE Newsletter Signup Email Address * Monthly Roundup - new books, discounts, blog updates, and general interest Yale Press news. Art & Architecture monthly - new books and discounts from our Art List. Literature & Translation - updates from the Margellos World Republic of Letters Series. I would like to receive additional emails with news about new titles in the following subject areas Arts & Culture Business & Economics History Medicine & Health Politics & Current Events Psychology Religion Science & Nature Leave this field blank 302 Temple Street New Haven, CT 06511-8909 Column New Releases Podcasts Contact Us Submissions Privacy Policy Column Series Blog Careers Catalogues Accessibility at Yale © 2022 Yale University Press. All Rights Reserved. Powered by Supadu