Skip to content Course Books Course Books Books New Releases Course Books Catalogues Publishing Partners View All Books Subjects Architecture Art Biography Business & Economics History Language Law Literary Collections Political Science Religion Science View All Subjects Series The Anchor Yale Bible Commentaries The Anchor Yale Bible Dictionary The Anchor Yale Bible Reference Library Black Lives Catwalk Jewish Lives The Margellos World Republic of Letters Why I Write Why X Matters Series Yale Drama Series Yale Series of Younger Poets View All Series Resources For Authors For Booksellers For Press/Media For Professors For Students Digital Products View All Resources About Us Mission & History Meet the Editors Careers Contact Us Close Menu X Advanced Search Home Yale Agrarian Studies Series science nature Birders of Africa Share this Article: Also Available: Birders of Africa History of a Network by Nancy J. Jacobs Imprint: Yale University Press Series: Yale Agrarian Studies Series 352 Pages, 6.12 x 9.25 x 1.00 in, 16 color + 49 b-w illus. Hardcover 9780300209617 Published: Tuesday, 26 Apr 2016 $60.00 Buy Shipping Location Our website offers shipping to the United States and Canada only. For customers in other countries: Mexico and South America: Contact TriLiteral to place your order. All Others: Visit our Yale University Press London website to place your order. Choose a Shipping Location Choose a destination United States of America Canada Shipping Updated Close Also Available At: Amazon Barnes & Noble Bookshop Indiebound Indigo Powell's Seminary Co-op Description Authors Praise In this unique and unprecedented study of birding in Africa, historian Nancy Jacobs reconstructs the collaborations between well-known ornithologists and the largely forgotten guides, hunters, and taxidermists who worked with them. Drawing on ethnography, scientific publications, private archives, and interviews, Jacobs asks: How did white ornithologists both depend on and operate distinctively from African birders? What investment did African birders have in collaborating with ornithologists? By distilling the interactions between European science and African vernacular knowledge, this stunningly illustrated work offers a fascinating examination of the colonial and postcolonial politics of expertise about nature. Nancy J. Jacobs is associate professor in the department of history at Brown University. She is the author of Environment, Power, and Injustice: A South African History. She lives in Providence, Rhode Island. “Like the African honeyguide, Nancy Jacobs has led us to great riches. She beautifully describes the fascination of humans for birds, and thereby greatly illuminates (post-)colonial relations between humans.”—Robert Ross, Leiden University ~Robert Ross “The author provides a thoughtful, timely and, in many respects, exhaustive study of the accumulation and exchange of bird lore in Africa. This work fills a notable gap in the (English, at least) literature with respect to African perceptions of what has traditionally been understood from a specifically North American/European perspective.”—Jill Payne, University of Cambridge ~Jill Payne “In this adventurous narrative that explores how relationships between humans and birds determined the course of African ornithological knowledge, Jacobs challenges accepted stereotypes and charts a new direction in African history.”—Jane Carruthers, University of South Africa ~Jane Carruthers “A masterful achievement, advancing our understanding of human knowledge about birds in Africa and the ways gender, culture, and empire shaped science, recreation, and individual lives.”—Thomas R. Dunlap, author of In the Field, Among the Feathered ~Thomas R. Dunlap “Jacobs takes readers on a sweeping history of birding in Africa and the relationships among ornithologists, guides, and recreational bird watchers that ensued. Its intimate and touching portraits of the lives of African collectors and guides reveals much about the power relations and changing dynamics of scientific work in colonial and post-colonial Africa.”—Gregg Mitman, author of Reel Nature: America’s Romance with Wildlife on Film ~Gregg Mitman “In the territory in which she is working, Jacobs has no equal. The book covers a topic—relations of race and class within the African continent’s birdwatching community—that no one has addressed so synthetically and comprehensively until now.”—Daniel Lewis, author of The Feathery Tribe ~Daniel Lewis Related Books Sign up for updates on new releases and special offers SUBSCRIBE Newsletter Signup Email Address * Monthly Roundup - new books, discounts, blog updates, and general interest Yale Press news. Art & Architecture monthly - new books and discounts from our Art List. Literature & Translation - updates from the Margellos World Republic of Letters Series. I would like to receive additional emails with news about new titles in the following subject areas Arts & Culture Business & Economics History Medicine & Health Politics & Current Events Psychology Religion Science & Nature Leave this field blank 302 Temple Street New Haven, CT 06511-8909 Column New Releases Podcasts Contact Us Submissions Privacy Policy Column Series Blog Careers Catalogues Accessibility at Yale © 2022 Yale University Press. All Rights Reserved. Powered by Supadu