Skip to content Course Books Course Books Books New Releases Course Books Catalogues Publishing Partners View All Books Subjects Architecture Art Biography Business & Economics History Language Law Literary Collections Political Science Religion Science View All Subjects Series The Anchor Yale Bible Commentaries The Anchor Yale Bible Dictionary The Anchor Yale Bible Reference Library Black Lives Catwalk Jewish Lives The Margellos World Republic of Letters Why I Write Why X Matters Series Yale Drama Series Yale Series of Younger Poets View All Series Resources For Authors For Booksellers For Press/Media For Professors For Students Digital Products View All Resources About Us Mission & History Meet the Editors Careers Contact Us Close Menu X Advanced Search Home The Anchor Yale Bible Reference Library history religion Women and the Religion of Ancient Israel Share this Article: Also Available: Women and the Religion of Ancient Israel by Susan Ackerman Imprint: Yale University Press Series: The Anchor Yale Bible Reference Library 576 Pages, 6.12 x 9.25 in, 39 b-w illus. Hardcover 9780300141788 Published: Tuesday, 19 Apr 2022 $50.00 Buy Shipping Location Our website offers shipping to the United States and Canada only. For customers in other countries: Mexico and South America: Contact TriLiteral to place your order. All Others: Visit our Yale University Press London website to place your order. Choose a Shipping Location Choose a destination United States of America Canada Shipping Updated Close Also Available At: Amazon Barnes & Noble Bookshop Indiebound Indigo Powell's Seminary Co-op Description Authors Praise A synthetic reconstruction of women's religious engagement and experiences in preexilic Israel “This monumental book examines a wealth of data from the Bible, archaeology, and ancient Near Eastern texts and iconography to provide a clear, comprehensive, and compelling analysis of women's religious lives in preexilic times."—Carol Meyers, Duke University Throughout the biblical narrative, ancient Israelite religious life is dominated by male actors. When women appear, they are often seen only on the periphery: as tangential, accidental, or passive participants. However, despite their absence from the written record, they were often deeply involved in religious practice and ritual observance. In this new volume, Susan Ackerman presents a comprehensive account of ancient Israelite women's religious lives and experiences. She examines the various sites of their practice, including household shrines, regional sanctuaries, and national temples; the calendar of religious rituals that women observed on a weekly, monthly, and yearly basis; and their special roles in religious settings. Drawing on texts, archaeology, and material culture, and documenting the distinctions between Israelite women's experiences and those of their male counterparts, Ackerman reconstructs an essential picture of women's lived religion in ancient Israelite culture. Susan Ackerman is the Preston H. Kelsey Professor of Religion at Dartmouth College, where she has taught since 1990. She is the author of several books, including Warrior, Dancer, Seductress, Queen: Women in Judges and Biblical Israel. She lives in Lebanon, NH. “This monumental book examines a wealth of data from the Bible, archaeology, and ancient Near Eastern texts and iconography to provide a clear, comprehensive, and compelling analysis of women’s religious lives in preexilic times.”—Carol Meyers, Duke University “Ackerman’s expertise as a leading historian of Israelite religion is on full display, as she weaves expert analysis of Hebrew Bible and extrabiblical sources with material culture. She grounds her extensive study of the religious traditions of ancient Israelite women with rigorously close readings of our partial and complicated texts, situating her analysis within a keen understanding of the cultures and practices of the ancient Near Eastern and Mediterranean worlds. This book is an impressive contribution filling a critical need—a must read.”—Theodore J. Lewis, author of The Origin and Character of God: Ancient Israelite Religion through the Lens of Divinity “In this richly illustrated and meticulously researched book, Ackerman invites us into the homes and sacred sites of ancient Israel to witness unexpected roles for women—guarding temple entrances, making pilgrimages, and preparing offerings for the household gods.”—Cynthia R. Chapman, author of The House of the Mother: The Social Roles of Maternal Kin in Biblical Hebrew Narrative and Poetry “The culmination of decades of scholarly study, this landmark work illuminates the important and varied roles of women in ancient Israelite religion. Ackerman thoughtfully probes the where, when, and who of women’s religious life in pre-exilic Israel, insightfully situating the biblical evidence within the cultural and religious life of Iron Age Israel, as revealed by extra-biblical texts, iconography, and the archaeological record. Clearly written and richly documented, this book is most highly recommended.”—Mark S. Smith, Princeton Theological Seminary “This superb book, distilling a lifetime of scholarship, presents a fine-grained picture of women’s religion in the pre-exilic period. Innovative and erudite, it illuminates the world of the Bible in unexpected and profound ways. Ackerman's book is a classic.”—Ronald Hendel, University of California–Berkeley Related Books Sign up for updates on new releases and special offers SUBSCRIBE Newsletter Signup Email Address * Monthly Roundup - new books, discounts, blog updates, and general interest Yale Press news. Art & Architecture monthly - new books and discounts from our Art List. Literature & Translation - updates from the Margellos World Republic of Letters Series. I would like to receive additional emails with news about new titles in the following subject areas Arts & Culture Business & Economics History Medicine & Health Politics & Current Events Psychology Religion Science & Nature Leave this field blank 302 Temple Street New Haven, CT 06511-8909 Column New Releases Podcasts Contact Us Submissions Privacy Policy Column Series Blog Careers Catalogues Accessibility at Yale © 2022 Yale University Press. All Rights Reserved. Powered by Supadu