Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation The Center for Historical Enquiry and the Social Sciences Home Workshop Study Groups Conferences People International Exchanges Blog Search Welcome The Center for Historical Enquiry & the Social Sciences (YaleCHESS) highlights the interplay between history and the present. Its work spurs new collective thinking about large-scale social transformations and solutions to seemingly intractable social crises and problems. Taking intellectual risks is actively encouraged. This cross-disciplinary center, headquartered at the Whitney and Betty MacMillan Center, spans the divide between the social sciences and humanities, bringing together a diverse complement of scholars to answer large questions that help us better understand the world we live in. Scholars learn from one another’s methodological expertise and substantive knowledge. CHESS’s key events are open to the public. The centerpiece of CHESS is a Friday lunchtime workshop in which pre-circulated papers are discussed. In addition the Center hosts regular conferences, including a Spring gathering focused on a general topic of interest and a biannual graduate student conference. The Center also supports occasional scholarly gatherings aimed at specific topics, and courses organized around both significant scholarship in the historical social sciences and the variety of methods available to those pursuing scholarship in social science history. Email List Subscription You can subscribe to the Yale CHESS Interest List and receive weekly email announcements regarding events and information related to historical inquiry and the social sciences. Email Address * First Name Last Name Special Events Remembering Immanuel Wallerstein October 16-17, 2020 Economic Harbingers of Political Modernization: Peaceful Explosion of Rights in Ottoman Istanbul with Timur Kuran February 6, 2020, 12:00PM Luce Hall Room 202 Co-sponsored with Leitner Political Economy Workshop and Comparative Politics Workshop The Future of Comparative Historical Sociology SSHA Annual Meeting, Co-Sponsored by the CHSSW at Northwestern University November 2019 Analysis of Political Texts Workshop with Arthur Spirling November 15, 2019, 10:00AM Luce Hall Room 202 Registration Required CHESS-EHESS 2018 Conference June 2018 User menu YaleSites How-to Guide Yale CHESS Blog The Persistence of Economic Inequality Empire: Never Dead, Not Even Past Are Liberals to Blame for Donald Trump? Does Google Make the State Stronger? How European Culture Became Global More Past Workshops Spring 2018 Workshop Fall 2018 Workshop Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Center for Historical Enquiry & the Social Sciences at the Whitney and Betty MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies at Yale. Facebook Twitter Flickr iTunes YouTube