Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation MyChart After Hours Language and Translation Search Search this site Directory Departments Clinicians Appointments Making Appointments Using MyChart Emergencies Sign Up for MyChart After Hours Language and Translation Coverage Student Coverage Clerical & Technical, Service & Maintenance Coverage Managerial & Professional Staff and Faculty Coverage Yale Police Benevolent Association (YPBA) Coverage Other Yale Benefits Out of Area Coverage Resources Announcements Classes and Events Emmi Educational Videos Forms Healthcasts Newsletter Research Opportunities University Wellness Resources More Health Topics Coverage Topics About Hours Directions and Parking Contact Our Story Senior Leadership Patient Partner Opportunities Diversity and Inclusion We Hear You Population Health Metrics The Arts at Yale Health Yale Health Patient Hardship Fund Directory Departments Clinicians Appointments Making Appointments Using MyChart Emergencies Sign Up for MyChart After Hours Language and Translation Coverage Student Coverage Clerical & Technical, Service & Maintenance Coverage Managerial & Professional Staff and Faculty Coverage Yale Police Benevolent Association (YPBA) Coverage Other Yale Benefits Out of Area Coverage Resources Announcements Classes and Events Emmi Educational Videos Forms Healthcasts Newsletter Research Opportunities University Wellness Resources More Health Topics Coverage Topics About Hours Directions and Parking Contact Our Story Senior Leadership Patient Partner Opportunities Diversity and Inclusion We Hear You Population Health Metrics The Arts at Yale Health Yale Health Patient Hardship Fund Information for Students Members New Members Retirees Home > Yale COVID-19 Vaccine Program Yale COVID-19 Vaccine Program Schedule Your COVID-19 Vaccine and Boosters Through the Yale Program Yale faculty, staff, students, and Yale Health members (ages 5 and older) can schedule their COVID-19 vaccine and boosters online. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention provides guidance and eligibility guidelines for additional doses and boosters. The vaccine clinic is located at 310 Winchester Ave. If you need scheduling assistance, please call the Campus COVID Resource Line (CCRL) at 203-432-6604. Submit or Confirm Your COVID-19 Vaccination Learn more and access the Yale Vaccine Portal here. Information about exemption requests can be found here. Tips to find a vaccine appointment outside of the Yale Program Visit the CT Department of Health and the CDC portals for options across the state and country. The New Haven Health Department organizes clinics throughout the city for New Haven residents. Remember to bring a photo ID and health insurance card with you to your vaccine appointment. Yale Health members can download or print a version of their Yale Health insurance card which contains the required information. Telephone assistance with scheduling is available 7 days a week through: Yale’s CCRL at 203-432-6604 (toll-free at 866-924-9253), from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm The State’s Vaccine Appointment Assist Line (Call 211 and select option 5) The CCRL can also assist with questions about the Yale Program, setting up your MyChart account or scheduling your appointment. Updated May 20, 2022 More Information COVID-19 Vaccination FAQs Key Things to Know About COVID-19 Vaccines - CDC Scheduling, Submitting, and Confirming Schedule Your COVID-19 Vaccine Through the Yale Program Submit or Confirm Your COVID-19 Vaccination Tips for Scheduling at a Pharmacy Yale Health 55 Lock Street P.O. BOX 208237 New Haven, CT 06520-8237 Directions and Parking Acute Care 203 432 0123 Member Services 203 432 0246 Hours 8:30 A.M. to 5:00 P.M. Unless otherwise noted See all hours See all departments Quick Links Contact Us Privacy Announcements Accreditation Forms Nondiscrimination Notice Patient Rights Translation Services Patient Safety Sitemap Accessibility at Yale Copyright © 2021 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy Twitter Facebook Instagram