Skip to main content Yale Institute for Biospheric Studies Search form Home People Staff Leadership Steering Committee Faculty Affiliates Postdoctoral Associates Gaylord Donnelley Postdoctoral Associates G. Evelyn Hutchinson Postdoctoral Associates Fellowships & Awards Gaylord Donnelley Postdoctoral Environmental Fellowship G. Evelyn Hutchinson Postdoctoral Environmental Fellowship Edward P. Bass Distinguished Visiting Environmental Scholars Program YIBS Small Grants Program YIBS Graduate Student Support News & Events Seminars & Lectures News & Updates Newsletter Supporting Environmental Science at Yale The Yale Institute for Biospheric Studies (YIBS) is the umbrella environmental science center on campus. We support and inspire the environmental community at Yale through research and training, grants and fellowships, and weekly seminars and events. We use a collaborative and cross-disciplinary approach to study the entire biosphere: from molecules to landscapes, and everything in between. Introducing YIBS from YIBS on Vimeo. YIBS provides fellowships and funding opportunities for members of the Yale community and for outside scholars. The YIBS Staff manages operations alongside our multidisciplinary faculty affiliates from schools and departments including Anthropology, Chemistry, Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, the School of Engineering & Applied Science, the Yale School of the Environment and the School of Public Health. We are advised by an External Advisory Board of environmental professionals. YIBS was founded in May 1990 with a generous endowment from Mr. Edward P. Bass, Yale College ‘67, Architecture ‘72, and Hon. ‘01. YIBS Postdoctoral Fellowships Gaylord Donnelley Postdoctoral Environmental Fellowship The application process for 2021 is now closed. For general information about the application process, please visit the Gaylord Donnelley Postdoctoral Environmental Fellowship page. Deadlines Awards will be announced on or before Friday, December 17, 2021. The awardees will begin residency at Yale University at a time negotiated with their respective sponsor, starting on or after July 1, 2022. G. Evelyn Hutchinson Postdoctoral Environmental Fellowship For more information, please visit the G. Evelyn Hutchinson Postdoctoral Environmental Fellowship page. News & Updates May 27, 2022 Taking Dinosaurs’ Temperature with a New Biomarker Yale University Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy Yale Institute for Biospheric Studies PO Box 208118 New Haven, CT 06520 Fax: (203) 432-9927 Email: yibs@yale.edu http://yibs.yale.edu Facebook Twitter Flickr iTunes YouTube