Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Community > Public Safety > Yale Security Department Yale Security Department The Yale Security Department dates back to the 1970s, when three officers were stationed on the Medical School Campus. In 1992, Yale published a report on improving public safety in order to address the needs of a 21st century campus. The University administration made it a point to keep the campus open and integrated into the New Haven urban landscape. As a result of these new goals the department developed into a separate entity in 1996. In the last 40 years, Yale Security has grown from three officers patrolling the Medical School to a department with 150 officers and managers that oversee the operation of over 500 blue phones and 3,000 card readers. The Yale Security Department serves as the eyes and ears of the YPD by patrolling buildings and parking facilities. Yale Security also manages the University security systems (CCTV cameras, ID card readers, intercoms and alarm systems), provides walking escorts and nighttime safe rides, runs theft deterrent programs, and provides lockout services. Yale Security Department has offices located at 57 Lock Street and 79 Howe Street, and on West Campus. The department is staffed 24 hours a day by trained security officers and management personnel. Mission To provide safety and security services to the entire campus community, including: Electronic and physical security systems. 24-hour monitoring and dispatching in partnership with police, fire, OEHS, and others. Security coverage for/in buildings, grounds, parking lots, and special events. Expertise to identify specific security risks and vulnerabilities and develop appropriate solutions. Management of security components for campus planning. Public Safety Police Community Policing Partnerships Security Security Leadership Security Departments and Offices Clery Statistics and Reporting Stay Safe on Campus Resources Careers Contact Us Feedback FAQ News Systems and Services Videos Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications