Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Community > Public Safety > Systems and Services > Passport Photos Passport Photos Yale Public Safety Services is now offering passport photo services to any Yale Student, Staff, or Faculty member. Get travel-ready with two perfectly sized, professional-quality photos. Passport photos are available at the Yale ID Center, 57 Lock Street, Monday through Friday (except during University holidays and recess periods). Passport photo services can be accommodated without an appointment and walk-ins are welcome. Passport/ID photos ready in minutes Printed in compliance with government regulations Perfect for students, employees, gym members, and travelers applying for a U.S. passport book or card Q. Am I required to have a passport as part of the REAL ID Act? A: Starting October 1, 2020, you may be required to present an alternative form of ID (in addition to your driver’s license), for domestic air travel. Among the acceptable identification forms are U.S. Passports, permanent resident cards, and more. For more information on the REAL ID requirements and to see the full list of states, please visit the Department of Homeland Security’s DHS REAL ID webpage. Q: Where can I get my passport photo taken? A: Visit the Yale ID Center located at 57 Lock Street, New Haven, CT (Monday-Friday, 8:30 a.m.-5:30 p.m.) In a few minutes, the Public Safety team will provide you with two perfectly sized, professional-quality passport photos that meet the government requirements listed on the U.S. Department of State’s website. Q: How do I apply for a passport? A: For information and forms needed for the application process, please visit the Travel section of the U.S. Department of State’s website. Q: Where can I get my passport registration form authorized? A: Where you apply depends on when you need your passport and what form you use. For details, please visit the Travel section of the U.S. Department of State’s website. Q: How do I apply for a passport for my child? A: Passport applications for children (under the age of 16) must be submitted in person. For more information on applying for a child’s passport, please visit the Travel section of the U.S. Department of State’s website. Systems and Services Notary Public Passport Photos Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications