Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Work at Yale > Learn and Grow > Training > Leadership and Management Development Leadership and Management Development Managing at Yale Core Program Electives for Supervisors and Managers Developing Leadership Acumen Through 360-Degree Feedback For Professionals Aspiring to be Managers Manager Toolkit Develop your people. Inspire breakthrough performance. To lead your team in ways that engage and inspire breakthrough performance—and develop the capabilities of your staff members—requires critical knowledge, skills, and attributes. That’s why the University developed its signature manager development program, Managing at Yale. Managing at Yale, is more than a training curriculum. It sets in motion the fundamentals needed to support a work culture that values diverse experiences and points of view—and thrives on respect and collaboration. Through interactive and engaging presentations, real-life scenarios, and peer interactivity, you will learn about leadership principles, labor relations, diversity and inclusiveness, and much more. The first three courses encompassing the Managing at Yale program are currently offered online over 9 months and will empower you to effectively deliver on Yale’s leadership expectations. These courses–Essentials, Great Manager and Managing for Results–cover a range of topics from Ethics, Emotional Intelligence, Labor Relations, HR to Diversity & Inclusion, DiSC, how to effectively manage both yourself and your team, and the 5 Behaviors of a Cohesive Team. Each course runs for 5-6 weeks with 7-8 week breaks in between. The last two courses, Extraordinary Leader and Advancing the Extraordinary Leader, are delivered in-person and provide insight through a 360-degree leadership assessment, development plan, and coach, to further develop your managerial and leadership skills. Read more about the courses in the learning center brochure. Register FAQs Managing at Yale Core Courses Step One: Managing at Yale Essentials Step Two: Great Manager Step Three: Managing for Results Managing at Yale Leadership Courses Step Four: Extraordinary Leader Program Step Five: Advancing the Extraordinary Leader program Electives Course Description InsideOut Coaching Learn to coach others for breakthrough performance and engagement (1 day). Leading with Influence Develop your skills to enlist, persuade, and engage others to achieve results (1/2 day) Manager Chats Join us quarterly for a special manager forum supporting and facilitating the ongoing growth of staff in their careers at Yale Project Management for Yale Professionals This course is intended for those either leading projects or interested in learning more about the project management discipline (1 day (in-class) or 3 - two and a half hour virtually). Training Clerical & Technical Training and Development Financial Training Leadership and Management Development Aspiring Manager Program Managing at Yale Core Courses Professional and Career Development Timekeeping Resources and Tips Research Training Travel and Expenses Workday Training Materials Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications