Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Work at Yale > Campus Services > Parking and Transportation Options > Shuttle Shuttle Returning to Yale Shuttle Updates All Yale Shuttle service routes are being supported. However, the number of shuttles (at peak times, from 7-9 a.m. and 4-6 p.m.) remain constrained by driver shortages. Community members are encouraged to consider alternative schedules or modes of transportation, as needed. Riders are required to be masked, according to state and federal health guidelines. Please review updated Safe Riding Protocols before utilizing our available routes: Daytime: Blue, Orange, Red, and VA Nighttime: Blue, Orange, and 333 Express West Campus: Green and Purple There is no service on Monday June 20, 2022 in observation of Juneteenth (June 19, 2022). The following enhancements are currently in place: The Blue line, Orange line, and 333 Cedar Express are seven day per week services and run until 1 a.m., with a final departure from 333 Cedar at 12:30 a.m. This free service runs year-round with the exception of the following University Holidays: New Years Eve, New Years Day, Memorial Day, Juneteenth, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving and the following Friday, Christmas Eve, and Christmas Day. Track Your Ride Subscribe For Announcements In addition to tracking your ride in real-time, you may view the DoubleMap text version. The Yale University Shuttle provides transportation between the University, the East Rock neighborhood, and the New Haven train stations for students, faculty and staff. Service to the Yale Community includes: daytime routes, nighttime routes, accessible transit van, VA Hospital shuttle, West Campus Shuttle, and Yale New Haven Hospital shuttle. Safe Riding Protocols Follow Passenger Guidelines Masks must be worn at all times by passengers and the driver when the vehicle is occupied. Visit the EHS website for additional information on Mask Requirements and Guidance. Stay Informed About Safety Measures Air circulation has been set to “fresh air” to allow for proper circulation of air flow. Cleaning and disinfecting of high touch point areas are cleaned at the end of each loop, and the entire vehicle is cleaned and disinfected nightly. Plan Ahead Check online before planning your trip, to be sure your route is available. Parking and Transportation Options Shuttle Daytime Routes Nighttime Routes Accessible Transit Van VA Shuttle Weekend Routes West Campus Shuttle YNHH Shuttle Parking Walk Bike Bus Train Rideshare Zipcar Advertise with YALE Shuttle Contact Information Parking & Transit Phone: 203-432-9790 Hours: Monday - Friday, 8 a.m.-4 p.m. Related Resources Lost & Found Area served by Yale Shuttle Tips on how to get to the Medical School Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications