Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Community > Public Safety > Police > A note from Chief Ronnell Higgins A note from Chief Ronnell Higgins September 3, 2021 To: Yale students, staff and faculty Dear Yale Community Members, As we begin a new semester, I would like to welcome you to campus. For my team and me, public safety is a higher purpose. Keeping you and our shared community safe is our only priority. We take it personally. That said, public safety is also a partnership. Here are four things you can do to help keep yourself and the community safe: Download the LiveSafe app to turn your mobile device into a safety device. It is loaded with practical features. Don’t walk alone at night; look for well-lit areas and use the shuttle bus and walking escort services, which are available to the campus community. Always be aware of your surroundings and stay alert when listening to headphones, texting, or talking on the phone. Street crimes can occur when individuals are distracted by these activities. Recognize we have a lot of pedestrian and bicycle traffic in our community—and that’s a great thing. So please stay extra alert when you are driving and always yield to pedestrians in cross walks. When you are walking or riding your bike, make sure others can see you, especially as we move later into the semester and the days get shorter. You can find more resources on the Stay Safe page. Interested in how we approach public safety at Yale? I invite you to check out the Campus Roll Call podcast. With my co-host, Assistant Chief Anthony Campbell, ’09 M.Div., ’95 B.A., we invite guests for candid conversations about race, equality, policing, leadership, and community. You can find it on YouTube or wherever you listen to podcasts. Best wishes for a great fall semester. Ronnell A. Higgins Director of Public Safety & Chief of Police Police Executive Command Staff Communications Division ITS Unit Patrol Division Investigative Services Unit Training and Professional Unit Compliance & Analysis General Orders and Standard Operating Procedures Training Use of Force Victim Services Approach to Policing Chief Higgins Welcomes Yale Students Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications