Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Media > Staff Stories Staff Stories Staff Spotlight – Maria Gutiérrez, Sustainability Engagement Manager Maria Guitérrez is on a mission—to integrate sustainable practices into Yale’s culture. As a sustainability engagement manager, Maria is part of a team whose charge is to advance sustainability in the scholarship and operations of the University. She works primarily with Yale students and has resurrected Spring Salvage—Yale’s annual resource recovery program, which had been on a two-year hiatus due to the pandemic. Maria... Recent Staff Stories IT Staff Spotlight – Jaime Tryon, Project Manager, Student and Academic Support Systems Throughout Jaime Tryon's career, she has learned that many skills are transferrable, and individuals can pivot in unexpected ways. As a project manager in Student and... Facilities Staff Spotlight – Sammy Rodriguez, Custodial Team Leader, West Campus As a custodial team leader, Sammy Rodriguez takes his job seriously and does it with a smile. He and his staff are responsible for keeping 24 buildings at Yale’s West... Staff Spotlight Lisa Palumbo, Coordinator, IT Business Operations Lisa Palumbo, part of the Yale community her entire life, is retiring in December after a 30-year career at the University. She grew up in the East Rock neighborhood a few... Staff Spotlight – Norell Mascolo, Dispatcher Yale Public Safety Norell Mascolo has been a Yale Public Safety Dispatcher since 2007. Norell is the first point of contact for Yale's emergency and non-emergency calls. It is a unique... Luis Baez - Staff Spotlight Luis Baez, has had a successful career in facilities maintenance, construction, and project management. As an area manager of facilities services, he, and his team maintain all... IT Staff Spotlight – Jeffrey Goddu IT Manager Jeff Goddu understands the value of being self-sufficient and helping others. After graduating from college, he worked for a small computer company that developed... Inside Facilities Staff Spotlight – Jennifer Gonsalves A warm welcome to Jennifer Gonsalves, Construction Project Manager, who recently joined the Office of Facilities’ Planning and Construction team. She began working for the... Shawn Clark - Staff Spotlight Shawn Clark, Program Manager, Foundational Technology Services, enjoys the many different challenges that come with working on the team responsible for upgrading Yale’s... Pam Bosward–Staff Spotlight Pam Bosward, who recently retired from Yale, has served in a wide range of roles in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS). She started her Yale career in the Department of... IT Staff Spotlight – Uchenna Ogbejesi Uchenna Ogbejesi, enjoys the challenge and diversity of being an IT portfolio analyst. At Yale for the past four years, he considers himself an early career professional, hired... IT Staff Spotlight – Ed Frey Ed Frey, Associate Director of Procurement, is ringing in the new year by retiring from Yale in January. He has held many interesting positions over the years, including... Staff Spotlight – Amber Garrard As the new associate director for the Office of Sustainability, Amber Garrard grapples with significant issues—for one, how to tackle climate change while striving for... Staff Spotlight – Eric Stegmaier In the spring of 2021, Eric Stegmaier, senior conservation assistant, Yale Center for British Art, had the chance to use his archeological illustration skills at a dig for the St... IT Staff Spotlight – Suresh Pandian Suresh Pandian, Director of Platform and System Administration, and his team of 30 manage several of Yale’s core infrastructure services. Services include Windows and... Staff Spotlight – Yale Police Officer and Chaplain Ariel Melendez Yale Police Officer Ariel Melendez sets the bar high for himself and those around him. At Yale since 2012, he recently became the Yale Police Department’s Chaplain in... Staff Spotlight – Michael Roberts In 1981, A. Bartlett Giamatti was Yale's President, NASA launched the first space shuttle, and bean bag chairs were all the rage. That same year Michael Roberts,... Staff Spotlight – Dana Lipnickas A seven-year Yale veteran, Dana Lipnickas started her career at Yale as a website manager in Finance. One of her first projects was working on the team tasked with the... Sergeant Chris Halstead's Generous and Life-Saving Act It's a fact; Yale Police Sergeant Christopher Halstead donated a kidney to save the life of a perfect stranger. Chris came across a story on social media about a 41-year... Staff Spotlight – Tim Sheets, Director Network Services A fast and secure campus network is vital for the Yale community to work, teach, and research. Ensuring that reliable network service for thousands of people and devices on the... Staff Spotlight – Cheri Ross, ITS Finance and Business Operations Cheri Ross, manager for ITS Finance and Business Operations, hit the ground running when she came to Yale in September of 2019, only working on campus six months before the... Staff Spotlight – Julie Mangino Julie Mangino, a country girl at heart, loves working in New Haven and tackling a wide variety of campus building projects. As an associate project manager, she oversees... Staff Spotlight – Tim Hinckley Tim Hinckley and his team had many successes this past year. As Director of Student and Academic Support Systems (SASS), Tim manages a staff of 29 information technology... Staff Spotlight – Rodney Williams Rodney Williams has a knack for fixing things. As a young man, he liked to take games and computers apart to see how they worked. He now applies that curiosity and skill to his... IT Staff Spotlight – Kathleen Omollo Kathleen Omollo, Director of Health IT Strategic Portfolio Management, in the department of ITS Medicine & Health, spent much of her childhood in upstate New York and the... Staff Spotlight – Michael Naylor Michael Naylor, a Program Specialist in the Office of Emergency Management (OEM), spends his days planning for threatening situations or helping prepare Yale departments and... Staff Spotlight – Regina Clarke Regina Clarke values mutual respect, open communications, and teamwork. As a Yale Facilities Superintendent, Regina manages 17 staff members and almost 20 buildings on campus.... IT Staff Spotlight – Wendy Battles They say that home is where the heart is, and for Wendy Battles, that is in Bergen County, New Jersey, where she was raised and met her lifelong best friend in a preschool... Staff Spotlight – Martin Platt Dedicated to giving back Marty Platt enjoys many things, including playing hockey, working at Yale, and volunteering for the Greater New Haven St. Patrick's Day Parade. A... Staff Spotlight – Gary D'Amora Gary D'Amora emanates a calm and steady presence as he moves through his busy workday. Gary combines a serene demeanor with a strong work ethic, a sense of fairness, and a... Staff Spotlight – Andrew Newman Andrew Newman, Director of Enterprise Architecture, ITS, has been at Yale for three and a half decades and has learned a thing or two along the way about systems management,... Staff Spotlight – Yale Police Sergeant Chris Halstead Sergeant Chris Halstead's life mission is to help people. As a U.S. Army Captain and now a Yale Police Sergeant, Chris is courageous, compassionate, and dedicated. A strong... Staff Spotlight – Samantha Lockheed In 2011, everything was looking up for Samantha Lockheed. In a few short weeks she would graduate from the University of New Haven with a master’s degree in Industrial-... Sustainability Spotlight – Kristina Chmelar The work of Kristina Chmelar, Facilities senior program planner with Capital University Planning, and a dedicated group of campus-wide colleagues is focused largely on energy... Staff Spotlight – Neha Agrawal Prior to March of 2020, you might find Neha Agrawal, Portfolio Manager for Foundational Technology Services (FTS), walking the halls of 25 Science Park, visiting with many of her... Staff Spotlight – Courtney McCarthy Courtney McCarthy began her Yale career in 2013 as a support specialist in HR Employee Relations. Since then, she has worn many hats within the HR organization—that of... Staff Spotlight – Andre Griffith Andre Griffith’s quite impressive resume includes not only Digital Technology Associate at the Yale School of Drama (YSD), but also radio host, filmmaker, musician, husband... Staff Spotlight – Stephen Senick Stephen Senick celebrates 45 years of service. Stephen Senick takes pride in his work and the relationships he’s developed over the years with Yale colleagues and... Sustainability Staff Spotlight – Samuel Olmstead Built in 1918, the Central Power Plant (CPP) provides steam heat and power to many Yale buildings— from Science Hill to Old Campus. The Sterling Power Plant (SPP), built in... Sustainability Spotlight – Cloud Technologies Team The Foundational Technologies Services and Cloud Technologies teams are responsible for making available and maintaining IT options that benefit the University as a whole. This... Staff spotlight - Colleen Maguire, Financial Analyst Colleen Maguire has boundless energy. As a Facilities Financial Analyst, like many of us, she has been working from home since March due to the pandemic. During that time, she... Sustainability spotlight — Thomas Downing Thomas Downing knows a ton about building energy use. He spends a significant part of his working life tracking the amount of energy usage for Yale’s buildings.... Staff Spotlight – Leonard Welch Overseeing one of Yale’s most important infrastructure services, Leonard Welch, Director of Telecommunications, works to ensure we all stay connected. Leonard began his... Staff Spotlight – Greg Modzelewski Greg Modzelewski recently celebrated his first anniversary of service at Yale. Following in his father Eugene’s footsteps, who worked at Yale for 34 years in the Physical... Staff Spotlight – Reginald (Reggie) Chavis Reggie Chavis is always on the move. As a Yale Public Safety Security Manager, he offers instruction and encouragement with genuine warmth and sincerity. A hands-on manager, he... Staff Spotlight – Brian Rebeschi As the newly appointed Interim Deputy Dean at the Medical School, Brian Rebeschi has many responsibilities but takes them all in stride. While the last few months have been... Staff Spotlight – Tzu-Tzu Benigni We recently caught up with Tzu-Tzu Benigni, IT Manager on the Enterprise Reporting & Analytics team, to chat about how the pandemic has impacted her work, what she’s... Staff Spotlight - Anthony Notarino Anthony Notarino has a calm and soothing voice on the phone; he is kind and patient, making him well suited for his role as a Yale Police Dispatcher. Anthony is always willing to... Meet Vance - Yale’s newest service dog & ambassador As the Yale campus slowly springs to life, many people walking about may run into Vance, the Yale Police Department’s (YPD) new service dog. First reporting for duty... Staff Spotlight – Apriel Biggs-Coker When Apriel Biggs-Coker began her Yale career almost two years ago, leading the Portfolio Management Office within ITS, she never could have predicted she would suddenly find... Staff Spotlight – Shellie Anello When Shellie Anello walks into a space, she immediately sees what needs to be done. As a construction project manager, she works on many lab renovations, new building construction... Cooking with Maria and Andrew – Don’t Crowd the Pan! Before the pandemic hit, Maria Warner was busy working in the lab analyzing samples for organ transplant donors and recipients. When Yale shut down, that work continued, but from... Staff Spotlight – CCI Action Team Diversity, inclusion, and equity—these are the principles on which the Yale Information Technology Services (ITS) Climate, Culture, and Inclusion (CCI) Task Force was... Staff Spotlight – Marinda Monfilston Like many of us at Yale and across the country, as we watch current national events unfold, set against the backdrop of a global pandemic, Marinda Monfilston, Diversity Program... Staff Spotlight – Michael Sullivan If you've ever walked past the Peabody Museum or behind Kroon Hall and admired the well-manicured lawns and gardens, Michael Sullivan and his team create and maintain all... Staff spotlight – Yale Facilities Stockroom Team After most individuals on campus left Yale due to COVID-19, some Facilities staff remained, keeping HVAC systems humming, lights on, and plumbing running. Yale’s mechanics,... Getting to know Yale leaders — Joan E. O’Neill Joan E. O’Neill, vice president for Alumni Affairs and Development, has worked at Yale in Development for more than thirty years. She is responsible for leadership of all... Staff Spotlight – Antonio Valderrama Antonio Valderrama is approaching his third anniversary with Yale. He began his Yale career as a contractor in late 2017. About a year later, he accepted a full-time position as... Staff Spotlight – Public Safety Systems and Services Team All active students, faculty, and staff at Yale have an ID badge. These badges control access to University buildings, dining halls, parking lots, printers, library services, and... Staff Spotlight – Officer Gregory Swiantek Officer Gregory Swiantek is a resourceful, upbeat, and kindhearted person. A constant source of positive energy around the Yale Police Department (YPD) and on his beat, he's... Staff Spotlight – Yale Hospitality Culinary Support Center Even before the pandemic began, the drivers and driver’s assistants at the Culinary Support Center have played a critical role in providing culinary delivery services to all... COVID-19 Staff Heroes – Support Services In mid-March, Yale closed the campus sending nonessential staff and faculty to work from home. In living rooms, basements, on couches and kitchen chairs, everyone is working to... COVID-19 Staff Heroes – Facilities Operations Although Yale’s campus is eerily quiet these days, with most of the community working from home due to the coronavirus pandemic, frontline healthcare workers and first... Staff Spotlight – Jonathan Torres Like many of us across campus, throughout the United States, and around the globe, Jonathan Torres is adjusting to his current reality. One which fuses work and home life; a... COVID-19 Staff Heroes - Yale Hospitality They say not all heroes wear capes—well, at Yale University, some of them wear chef coats. Nicole White, First Cook at Trumbull Dining, and Craig Staffey, CSC Garde Manger... COVID-19 Staff Heroes – Yale Housing Team While many members of the Yale community transitioned to teaching, learning, working, and studying from home, the COVID-19 pandemic posed a challenge for some graduate students... Staff Spotlight – Jennifer Draughn Jennifer Draughn, Custodial Services Superintendent, manages a team of 19 responsible for keeping Yale's treasured museum and gallery areas sparkling clean, including Yale... Staff Spotlight – Kory Evasick Kory’s first day at Hospitality was an auspicious one, her birthday, on September 13, 2015. She came to Yale with an extensive background in facilities management, and... Staff Spotlight – Thomas Nguyen-Phuoc Sergeant Thomas Nguyen-Phuoc brings patience and understanding to his work as a police officer. He deeply values being part of the Yale Police Department (YPD) and the wider Yale... Staff Spotlight – Courtlandt Stretton Courtlandt Stretton is never bored. In her role as finance manager for ITS, Courtlandt and team, led by Mark Manton, support all areas of Central IT. The team is responsible for... Getting to know Yale leaders — Nate Nickerson Vice president for communications and chief communications officer, Nate Nickerson leads Yale’s Office of Public Affairs & Communications (OPAC), overseeing media... Staff Spotlight – James Carr James Carr possesses a calm inner strength, handling tough situations with grace and fortitude. A union steward, he believes strongly in championing people’s rights. He is... Staff Spotlight – Chevelle Irvin In 2008, Chevelle Irvin’s Platt Technical High School culinary teacher took her class to Hospitality’s offices at 246 Church Street, where her class filled out... Staff Spotlight — Darrell Cook Darrell Cook, director of Cross Application Platforms, IT Enterprise Applications, joined Yale in June 2013. He began his career at Yale as the director of the Oracle Data... Staff Spotlight — Lamar Bowers Lamar Bowers, third cook at the School of Management (SOM), has been at Yale for the better part of 15 years. His career began at the age of 16 when he took a summer job with Yale... Staff Spotlight — Lisa Sawin Lisa Sawin, senior director, IT Shared Services, joined Yale in 2013, as a manager in ITS. The path that led her here is unique and wide-ranging. The takeaway? "I want people... Staff Spotlight — William Felder The year was 1975. Kingman Brewster was Yale’s President, the School of Management did not exist yet, and the Yale Center for British Art was under construction... Staff Spotlight — Captain, Von Narcisse An imposing presence at over six feet tall, Captain Von Narcisse is polite, upbeat, and an inspiring member of the community. Von has responsibility and oversight for the... Staff spotlight — Steven Woznyk Steven Woznyk’s job is to keep people safe. It’s a heavy responsibility, but he is always smiling, kind, and willing to help whenever needed. As Assistant Police... Staff Spotlight — Frank Mathew Always thoughtful, pleasant, and calm, the associate CIO for Enterprise Applications, Frank Mathew, is responsible for oversight of Yale’s enterprise applications. Frank... Staff Spotlight – Jacqueline Gaetano – Her career journey Jacqueline Gaetano has had quite a journey during her 19 years at Yale. These days, as a Facilities Superintendent for the music and Cross Campus areas, she keeps busy managing 21... Staff Spotlight — George Longyear George Longyear, director of Yale Housing and Fleet Management, is often seen briskly walking around campus ensuring things are running smoothly. When he is not helping a student... Staff Spotlight - Roger Vandal—Helping others Roger Vandal, utilities shift engineer, has been at Yale for 30 years, and currently works in the Sterling Power Plant at the medical school. He is responsible for keeping the... Getting to know Yale leaders—Jane Savage Jane Savage, associate vice president for Union-Management and Strategic Initiatives, is responsible for union-management relations at Yale, including Labor Relations, which... Getting to know Yale leaders—John Mayes II John Mayes II, associate vice president for Administration, was born and raised in West Haven, the seventh of eight children. Recently, he celebrated his 25th anniversary at Yale... Staff Spotlight—Lisa Maloney Lisa Maloney communications officer, Internal Communications Q: Tell us about your career path at Yale University. A: Before Yale, I worked as a marketing and tradeshow... Getting to know Yale leaders—Stephen Murphy Born in New Haven, Stephen Murphy, vice president for finance and chief financial officer, lived and worked around the world before returning to work at Yale in 2001. Steve... Facilities Staff Spotlight—Lynda Munda Kasongo Custodian Lynda Munda Kasongo is always on the move. Her life in New Haven is not only a happy one, but a busy one! Lynda works the 4:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. shift at Kline... Getting to know IT leaders—Kiran Keshav Kiran Keshav, executive director of the Yale Center for Research Computing and senior director of Research Technologies, is helping researchers advance in various disciplines at... Getting to know Yale leaders—Lauren Zucker Lauren Zucker, associate vice president for New Haven Affairs and University Properties, joined Yale in 2011 after a career in corporate real estate finance. When asked what her... Lou Tiseo, building things, family ties, and lots of Legos Lou Tiseo, senior director of Foundational Technology Services, grew up in Astoria, Queens, New York surrounded by a large, close-knit, Italian-American family that included 45... Getting to know Yale leaders—Sharon Kugler Sharon M.K. Kugler became the seventh university chaplain to Yale in July of 2007. She is the first woman, first lay-person, and first Roman Catholic to hold this position here.... Yale’s millworkers: making the new look old again What happens when you combine an eclectic mix of carpenters with modern day tools and technology—premium craftsmanship done efficiently. Years ago, Yale Facilities employed... Getting to know IT leaders—John Barden John Barden is Yale’s associate vice president and chief information officer and has been at Yale since March 2017. John was born and spent most of his younger years in... Getting to know Yale leaders—Janet Lindner Janet Lindner is Yale’s vice president of Human Resources and Administration. She has served in many key roles during her more than 20 years at the university, including... Staff Spotlight—Ron Lipkins “Continue to evolve constantly—let today be the day you give up who you’ve been for who you can become.” Ron Lipkins, director of HR Innovation and... Getting to know Yale leaders—Kimberly Goff-Crews Kimberly Goff-Crews, Yale’s secretary and vice president for Student Life, grew up in Los Angeles and did not leave the city until she traveled to Yale University to go to... Staff Spotlight—Frank Squeglia When Security Systems Specialist Frank Squeglia reflects on his 15-year career at Yale and the path that led him here, he can’t help but feel like this is where he was meant... Getting to know Yale leaders—Susan Gibbons Susan Gibbons joined Yale as university librarian in 2011. She came to New Haven from Rochester, New York, where she spent 11 years at the University of Rochester, lastly as vice... Staff Spotlight—Overcoming tragedy by helping others After Sue Barez’s 24-year-old son Joshua died of suicide four years ago on September 2, 2014, she decided to share her story and put a spotlight on a disease that she feels... Getting to know Yale leaders—Jack Callahan Jack Callahan, senior vice president of Operations, has a family lineage that extends from Ireland to New Haven where he grew up in Morris Cove. His grandparents immigrated from... Staff Spotlight—Adrienne Wilson Adrienne Wilson, a benefits and absence management analyst in Benefits, was recently interviewed for the Staff Spotlight section of Inside HR&A. How long have you been with... Do You Have a Story to Share? Send us your story ideas. Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications