Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale Public Safety Chief Higgins Welcomes Yale Students Safety Services Contact Information Community Policing Partnerships Public Safety Departments Report a Crime Access Statistics and Reporting Request Safe Transportation Request Public Safety Services Download the LiveSafe App Chief Higgins Welcomes Yale Students I am excited to welcome all students to Yale’s campus and share the following Public Safety services and resources. I encourage you to learn more about how we serve the Yale community, including information about our approach to policing, our general orders and standard operating procedures, how to contact us, and more. Help Stop Hate Crimes Call Yale Police (203-432-4400) or report a crime through LiveSafe. Download LiveSafe Download LiveSafe, for direct access to the Yale's shuttle map, and more. Stay Informed Learn about what we’re up to and view our daily crime log and timely warnings. Stay Safe on Campus The Yale Police Department has primary responsibility for patrolling the Yale campus and also serves in a supportive role to the New Haven Police Department as an extended patrol area. View the campus boundary map. (If an accessible version of the map is required please contact safe@yale.edu.) Safety Services Safe Rides Lock Out Safety Resources Emergency Management Safety Tips Lost and Found Identity Services ID Center Fingerprinting Identity Theft Connect With Us We value your feedback! Share compliments or civilian complaints, so that we may take appropriate action. Also, stay current on Public Safety events by connecting with us on social media. Locations 101 Ashmun Street, Yale Police 79 Howe Street, Yale Security 57 Lock Street, Central ID Center 333 Cedar Street, Medical ID Center Additional Contact Info Important Phone Numbers Blue Phones Recognition and Commendation Feedback and Comments Community Policing Partnerships Yale Police officers are committed to being fully transparent with the University community. Outreach Community Engagement Team New Haven Police Partnership Statistics and Reporting News and Events Citizen’s Police Academy FLEYA View all public safety media About Public Safety Our organization is bound together by core values and principles that we all share. Those values form the ethical basis for our decision-making. Police Executive Command Staff Careers Security Departments and Offices Leadership Systems and Services ID Center Notary Public Passport Photos Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications