Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale Manager Toolkit Resources and Support Attract and Onboard Develop Yourself and Others Engage and Recognize Transition and Offboard Manage at Yale Access helpful information that supports you as a leader at Yale, including information on your role as a manager in supporting Yale’s Vaccination Program. Leadership Expectations Learn what is expected of Yale leaders—from demonstrating integrity and character to leading innovation and positive change. Learn more by participating in Yale’s signature manager development program, Managing at Yale. Workplace Conduct Staff Workplace Policies Diversity and Inclusion Office for Equal Opportunity Programs Standards of Business Conduct Yale University Hotline Key Resources Working with your HRG Recruiting Services Holiday Schedule Labor Agreements Manager Chats Support Resources Get answers to common questions, access tips, and receive support. Trending Topics Time and Absence: Approvals for temps/active retirees, resources for supervisors and designees Workday: delegations, roles, supervisory organizations, reporting and other training Timekeeping procedure Tips Manage Remote Teams Consider flexible work arrangements Discover wellness scholarships Support For questions about approving time, Workday processes, Yale policies, and more, contact Employee Services. Attract and Onboard Discover top talent and introduce them to Yale resources and processes. Recruit Recruiting and hiring steps Hiring Guide Interviewing Guide for Hiring Managers New Haven Hiring Initiative (NHHI) STARS for Managers and user guide Hire Hire Temps, Students, or Interns Hire or appoint new Faculty Background checks Reference checks Onboard Manager checklist for new hires New Employee Orientation Develop Yourself and Others Support staff development and invest in your own growth. Develop Yourself Leadership Development Online Learning courses Suggested Reading Develop Your Staff For information on performance management, coaching, development opportunities, training, and more, visit Learn and Grow. Develop Your Team Goal setting and feedback Setting SMART goals Engage and Recognize Inspire your team to go above-and-beyond by actively engaging them and recognizing their efforts. Engagement Opportunities Upcoming University events Affinity Groups Recognition The power of recognition How to recognize staff Staff recognition programs Celebrate anniversaries and birthdays Send an electronic Yale greeting card Staff Celebration Calendar Workplace Culture WorkLife resources On-the-job happiness Yale Signature Benefits Workplace Health and Safety Workplace Survey Campus and workplace violence prevention Transition and Offboard Prepare to support staff as they take leaves of absence, new roles, or retire. Transfers and Leaves Learn about leaves of absence and access helpful resources for managers. Exits Consult the offboarding checklist as you prepare for your employee to leave Yale. Retirement Refer staff to the ESC for questions about retirement eligibility. View additional retirement resources and information on managing job changes. Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications