Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Work at Yale > Careers > Explore Clinical and Research Careers Explore Clinical and Research Careers Whether you’re a researcher who enjoys studying novel approaches to improve function and health, or a healthcare professional who is passionate about providing outstanding care in a patient-centered environment, Yale provides the resources and opportunities for a rewarding career in your field. Search current openings for Clinical and Research careers. Committed to excellence Yale is continually demonstrating its leadership in the clinical, research, and medical fields. Yale is home to a number of renowned research centers, laboratories, and institutes that are pushing the boundaries of knowledge on topics ranging from autism to globalization. In addition, Yale’s School of Medicine has driven scientific research leading to the development of new drugs and therapies, helping countless patients. Notably, the School of Medicine consistently ranks in the top handful of medical schools receiving funding from the National Institutes of Health. Yale Health is the university’s state-of-the-art multidisciplinary health maintenance facility, which has more than 37,000 members including students, staff, faculty and their families. Yale Health employs over 150 providers, and has been continuously accredited by the Joint Commission since 2005. Yale University offers comprehensive and affordable health benefits to eligible employees. Highlights of our impressive offerings include: Generous paid time off On-site healthcare Comprehensive retirement plans College scholarships for children of employees Eight culturally and demographically diverse affinity groups The university is often recognized as an employer which values and promotes work-life balance. We were recently recognized by the Fairfield Country Business Council as a 2018 Platinum Honoree of its Healthy Workplace Employer Recognition Program. Yale has also earned a distinction as one of Working Mothers Magazine’s 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers several times within the last decade. Exciting clinical and research careers include, but are not limited to: Research Assistant, Medical Assistant, Pharmacy Technician, Account Assistant, Clinical Receptionist, Licensed Practical Nurse Clinical Research Coordinator, Biostatistician, Registered Nurse, Nurse Practitioner, Physician, Clinical Practice Specialist Meet a member of our team Mary Kate Ottaviano, Senior Administrative Assistant Mary Kate began here about 5 years ago as a Pharmacy Tech, and because of her superior customer service skills, decided to pursue a position within the call center. Now, she has been promoted and is leading other call center staff. She has demonstrated how an external job seeker can enter Yale, excel, change their career focus, and grow professionally. Careers Search Jobs at Yale New Haven Hiring Initiative Wage Ranges Student and Temporary Employee Salary Rates Find Your Recruiter Internships Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications