Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Community > Public Safety > Community Policing Partnerships Community Policing Partnerships Yale takes pride in its nationally recognized campus police department. Yale police are committed to being engaged with the university community—as such, it is our responsibility to be fully transparent. The goal for Yale police is to constantly improve open lines of communication with students, faculty and staff. Yale police have developed many community outreach programs, committees, and comprehensive officer training to ensure an accountable agency. Teams and Committees Community Engagement Team Fostering trust is a priority of Yale. That’s why we have developed the Community Engagement Team, to engage with student groups, residential colleges, athletics department, New Haven communities, and others to be aware of campus needs and concerns. The team works collaboratively with community members to address issues and concerns. New Haven Community Police Partnership Selected members of the Yale Police have been assigned to partner with the New Haven Police Department and participate in regularly scheduled community management team meetings in neighborhoods bordering Yale. The local Community Management Team meetings are held once a month in each of New Haven’s police districts to provide a forum for city representatives, businesses, and residents to share information and address neighborhood issues. Advisory Committee on Community Policing The primary objective of the Advisory Committee on Community Policing is to plan, creatively problem-solve, and actively engage in innovative strategies promoting public safety and a sense of belonging and mutual understanding between police and the campus community. Events and Community Outreach Events The Yale Police Department participates in community events on Yale’s campus, in New Haven, and at other locations with fellow law enforcement agencies, listed below are many of our featured events: Annual Chili Cook-off for Toys for Tots Battle of the Badges Channel 3 Kids Summer Camp Citizens’ Police Academy Future Law Enforcement Academy (FLEYA) Halloween/Prospect Street Heroes’ Day at the Bowl Mother’s Day outreach New Haven Police Department Police Activity League (NHPD PAL) Summer Camp New Reach Community Outreach Center Diaper Drive The Pink Patch Project Tour da Force Bike Ride Turkey Dinner Food Drive Veterans Day YPD Honor Guard YPD Blood Drive Safety Orientation It is important that Yale students, staff, and faculty are actively aware of what is happening in their community. Yale Public Safety staff, including Chief Higgins, conduct mandatory student orientations for incoming first-year students and new graduate and professional students. These presentations highlight the Yale Police Department’s inclusive policing approach and will explain the role of police on campus. Watch our latest public-safety video, explaining our role and describing how officers work with the community to ensure a safe campus. Social Media Follow Yale Public Safety on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and YouTube for information about our safety and security services. Feedback and Recognition Yale Public Safety strives for excellence in the delivery of services; therefore, your feedback is important to us. Please contact our department to submit comments, suggestions, and/or concerns. We place tremendous value on the input provided by members of the Yale and New Haven community. Your assistance in helping us enrich our services is greatly appreciated. Thank you! To recognize our officers for commendable acts, we have created an online commendation form. We encourage members of our community to submit information about a commendable action by one of our officers or associates, so that we can properly recognize their actions. Public Safety Police Community Policing Partnerships Security Clery Statistics and Reporting Stay Safe on Campus Resources Careers Contact Us Feedback FAQ News Systems and Services Videos Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications