Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Work at Yale > Careers > New Haven Hiring Initiative New Haven Hiring Initiative Yale University’s New Haven Hiring Initiative (NHHI) supports New Haven economic growth by connecting qualified, New Haven residents to open positions at the University. Get to know some of the individuals who found employment at Yale through NHHI programs. Temporary Opportunities If you are a New Haven resident interested in temporary opportunities at Yale University, please fill out the webform. Temporary Opportunities Webform Timeline 2012 2013 2015 2019 Moving Forward New Haven Board of Alderman established New Haven Works (NHW) Yale University established New Haven Hiring Initiative Agreement to hire 1,000 New Haven residents, 500 from the most affected neighborhoods Establishment of new commitments focused on training and hiring Develop employment pipelines tailored to hiring manager's needs Building a Strong New Haven With 14,000 faculty and staff, Yale is the largest private employer in New Haven and remains committed to hiring locally. More than 5,000 New Haven residents are Yale employees. Yale regularly attends community career fairs and conducts recruitment networking events. Yale’s New Haven Promise college scholarship for New Haven high school seniors and internship programs helps build a “community to career” jobs pipeline. Wages and benefits for clerical, technical, service and maintenance positions exceed the wages and benefits offered locally for comparable jobs. Programs Goals Provide technical skills and develop competencies required for Yale employment. Create a hiring pipeline and on-the-job apprenticeships. Support hiring managers to provide job-specific training. Yale NHHI Programs The University works with community partners and its union partners, Local 34 and Local 35 to create training and skills development programs that support employment opportunities at Yale. Gateway Community College Qualified candidates develop technical and customer service skills and relevant experience through the office assistant and other programs. Tuition assistance is available. Yale Trainee Program Yale’s NHHI provides rigorous technical and behavioral on-the-job training through a variety of experiences and job-rotation. University Departmental Training Yale invests in skills development by covering the cost to provide on-the-job training for newly hired employees. Hospitality Yale and Local 35 will create a cook’s apprentice program through Yale Dining and expand Yale Catering opportunities to local residents interested in food service jobs. Eli Whitney Apprenticeship New Haven vocational and technical graduates gain experience towards achieving a licensed skilled trade through an apprenticeship with Yale’s Local 35 union. Licensed Trades Apprenticeship For residents interested in becoming licensed plumbers, electricians, glaziers, and HVAC maintenance workers, Yale and Local 35 will provide opportunities to develop skills and learn the trade. Unlicensed Trades Apprenticeship For residents interested in becoming painters, masons, or carpenters, Yale and Local 35 offer opportunities to gain experience and build skills in the trade. Help build a “community to career” pipeline Mentor a New Haven candidate who is currently temping in your department and help them create a network for employment opportunities. Refer candidates to Job Resources for New Haven Residents for tips on drafting a resume and tailoring a cover letter to meet job requirements. Refer qualified candidates you may know to the New Haven Hiring Initiative Recruiter Yale works with major campus contractors and vendors to obtain commitments for hiring local residents. Careers Search Jobs at Yale New Haven Hiring Initiative Resources For Hiring Managers Resources For New Haven Residents NHHI Newsletter Meet Our Team Wage Ranges Student and Temporary Employee Salary Rates Find Your Recruiter Internships Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications