Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Community > Public Safety > Systems and Services > Notary Public Notary Public Yale Public Safety offers notary public services to the University. The notary public will verify your identity and must witness you signing the document(s). Notary services are available free of charge to Yale Student, Staff, or Faculty members at the Central ID Center at 57 Lock Street. Notary public service is available by appointment only Tuesday – Friday, excluding recess and holidays. Schedule an appointment online using the link below. Please note that notary services are dependent upon the availability of the notary public. Book an appointment for Notary services What to bring Please bring the ENTIRE document to our notary (not just the page you need notarized). PLEASE DO NOT SIGN YOUR DOCUMENTS UNTIL INSTRUCTED TO DO SO BY OUR NOTARY. If you have already signed your document, you will need to print a new copy to be properly (and legally) notarized. A valid, government-issued photo ID (driver’s license, passport, military ID). Systems and Services Notary Public Passport Photos Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications