Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale Research Support Contracts at Yale Yale IRB Submit for IACUC Review COI Policies & Procedures Pre-Award/Post Award Support (non-medical) Guidelines on Export Controls Office of Research Administration Responsible for the University’s systems and processes regarding research administration and improved compliance and regulatory activities. Provides oversight and guidance for Yale’s research offices. Coordinate the activities of the various University offices providing support to faculty, staff and students on sponsored projects, to assure that service provided by those offices is of the highest caliber and professionalism, and to serve as an effective representative for the research enterprise at Yale University and nationally. Office of Research Compliance The Office of Research Compliance (ORC) provides support to the Office of Research Administration (ORA) and its mission. As such, ORC’s role is to review and participate in the implementation of emerging regulatory requirements, and proactively monitoring regulatory compliance through assessments and responding to concerns expressed to the ORC. Office of Sponsored Projects The Office of Sponsored Projects provides assistance to faculty and staff in obtaining and managing sponsored awards that support scholarly activities. We review and approve proposals submitted to all sponsors, for interpreting, negotiating, and accepting grants and contracts for sponsored projects (externally-funded activities), funded by federal and state agencies, foundations and other public and private sources, and provide guidance to assure proper stewardship of funds that are received. Award Management The Office of Sponsored Projects’ Award Management team has responsibilities for ensuring University and sponsor policies, procedures, and processes are followed. Contracts at Yale The OSP Contracts’ team is responsible for reviewing, negotiating and finalizing contracts with corporate partners, the Federal Government and complex agreements with Foundations. Animal Research Support Committed to conducting quality animal research in an ethical and responsible manner. Policies, Procedures, Guidelines and Instructions Applicable Federal and State Regulations. Submit for IACUC review For questions regarding your protocol, contact your protocol liaison. Human Research Protection Program Under the oversight of the Deputy Provost for Research, the Yale Human Research Protection Program (HRPP) within the Office of Research Administration is responsible for the protection of the rights and welfare of human subjects in research projects conducted at Yale, by Yale faculty, staff and students, and by investigators from several affiliate institutions. Policies, Procedures, Guidance and Checklists Documents to assist in fulfilling obligations to ensure that research is in compliance with applicable laws, regulations and Yale’s commitment to the protection of its research participants. Yale IRB Each IRB panel has a submission focus, but are constituted to be able to review all types of submissions. Faculty Research Management Services Faculty Research Management Services (FRMS) provides non-medical school departments and their principal investigators with the resources and expert knowledge needed to compete for, manage, and renew sponsored awards. Pre-Award Support We help determine eligibility for grants and awards, and develop the proposals needed to compete for them. Post-Award Support Keeps principal investigators and staff up-to-date and ensure compliance with guidelines and regulations Conflict of Interest Office The Provost’s Committee on Conflict of Interest (“Committee”) is charged with identifying and addressing any potential, actual, and apparent conflicts of interest resulting from related external interests. The Conflict of Interest Office supports the Committee while working collaboratively with the Yale community to manage, reduce, or eliminate any identified potential, actual, or apparent conflicts of interest. COI Policies & Procedures In pursuit of its own mission, and consistent with the requirements of external agencies, particularly the federal government, Yale University has formulated the Policy on Conflict of Interest to identify and address conflicts of interest and conflicts of commitment. Please visit our site for FAQs and other information and resources related to external interest disclosure requirements and processes. Federal and other COI Requirements and Guidelines Access Yale’s External Interests Disclosure Form (Yale NetID and password are required). To access the Disclosure Form from outside of Yale’s network (e.g., from your home or other remote location), Yale VPN (Virtual Private Network) is required. If you do not already have a VPN client installed, for further information. Environmental Health and Safety Ensures that the campus and work environment are as safe as possible, to protect staff from harm and to prevent accidents and injuries. Export Controls In order to ensure compliance with Export Controls, Yale faculty and staff need to identify when their activities may trigger such regulations. When Export Controls do apply, individuals must take the appropriate steps to obtain any required governmental licenses, monitor and control access to restricted information, and safeguard all controlled materials. The office of Export Controls helps you understand and comply with export control regulations. Guidelines on Export Controls The University may be required to obtain prior approval before allowing foreign nationals to participate in research, collaborate with a foreign company, or share research results with foreign nationals. Government Regulations Various regulations govern export controls. Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications