Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Community > Public Safety > Stay Safe on Campus > Safety Tips Safety Tips There are many steps that each of us can take to ensure our safety. Below, are general personal safety rules to follow. Use common sense. Try not to walk alone or appear distracted by wearing headphones or talking on your cell phone. At night, always walk with a friend and use lighted pathways to navigate throughout the University. Use the campus transportation services and security escorts. If you see something, say something. Report any questionable activity or crime right away. Do not carry or display large amounts of money or jewelry. If approached by someone demanding money, do not resist. Turn over the money, then call the police immediately. Obey the law: Avoid illegal drugs and alcohol. Identify visitors through a window or peephole before opening the door. Request service people to show proper credentials before you let them into your apartment. Never hesitate to contact the police if you have been a victim of a crime. When well-lit areas are not available, use the campus transportation services and security escorts by calling 203-432-6330 or 203-432-WALK. Preventing Fraud Check your devices – Before starting your hunt for the best deal, make sure your devices are up-to-date and all of your accounts have strong passwords. If you purchase an internet connected device or toy, change the default password and check the devices’ privacy and security settings to make sure you’re not sharing more information than you want. Shop through trusted retailers – Before making a purchase and providing any personal or financial information, make sure you’re using a reputable, established vendor. Similarly, if you’re planning to make a charitable donation, be sure to research who or where your donation is going, to ensure it’s a legitimate organization. Using safe methods for purchases – If you can, use a credit card or other forms of digital payments opposed to a debit card as credit cards often have better fraud protections. Stay Safe on Campus Victim Services Crisis Services - 24-Hour Hotlines Lost & Found Off-Campus Resources Safety Tips Apartment Safety Tips Personal Safety Sexual Misconduct Response Tips and Resources Holiday Safety Tips Harassing Phone Calls Burglar Alarm User Instructions Internet Crime Prevention Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications