Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale Belonging at Yale - Celebrate Pride Celebrate Pride Starting in April and continuing through June, Yale honors Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ+) communities through Pride celebrations. Show your support by engaging in the following opportunities. Community members may celebrate other cultural and religious observances June. Have we missed something? Please let us know. Engagement Opportunities Arts and Theater Books Courses Events Films and TV Series Organizations and Centers of Engagement Social Media Channels Additional Resources Arts and Theater New Haven Pride Center Day of Action on Racial Justice June 12, 10 am Hosted at the Yale Repertory Theatre, this year’s Day of Action is dedicated to the diverse needs and struggles of LGBTQ+ Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC). This mini-conference will aim to directly combat racism through discussion, group learning, and artistic perspectives. It is presented in partnership with the International Festival of Arts & Ideas. Communities of Care: Love and Social Justice June 11, 3 pm Minneapolis city council president Andrea Jenkins made national headlines in 2017 after becoming the country’s first out Black trans person elected to public office. In 2022 she created history again when voted council president. The writer, performance artist, poet and transgender activist will talk about her experiences in activism and the importance of centering love as a motivating force in social justice work. The event is presented in partnership with the International Festival of Arts & Ideas and is held at the Yale Repertory Theatre. at home: Artists in Conversation featuring Prem Sahib The Yale Center for British Art will provide a recording of at home: Artists in Conversation, featuring Prem Sahib, a British artist of Indian Polish descent. Sahib works primarily in sculpture, installation, performance, sound, and photography. Often minimal and sparse in color, Sahib’s work explores themes including relationships, intimacy and sexuality, community, alienation, and confinement. Their work is informed by an interest in the architecture of meeting places, particularly for gay and queer communities. Books GLSEN GLSEN’s National Student Council put together a list of books that are focused on diverse stories and LGBTQ+ characters. While the booklist showcases many LGBTQ+ authors, not all of them may be part of the community, but instead show solidarity by highlighting LGBTQ+ stories and characters. These lists are geared towards K-12 but can be enjoyed by anyone. Please be mindful that some of these books may address heavy topics. View their Elementary School, Middle School, and High School book recommendations. Yale University Press and Yale University Library Refer to the Pride 2021 reading list, featuring a collection of titles about gay icons and artists, legal debates and triumphs, cultural and literary criticism, works by LGBTQ+ authors, and more. Additionally, the Press offers a list of Gay and Lesbian Studies books, Gender Studies books, and more. The library’s collection also includes additional resources on this topic. Courses Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Studies The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Studies at Yale promote innovate interdisciplinary scholarship and teaching on the historical and contemporary experience of lesbians, gay men, bisexuals, and transgender people. It also fosters critical analysis of queer and normative sexualities, the formation of sexual and gender minorities, and the role of sexuality in culture and politics in the world. LinkedIn Learning Explore free courses on LinkedIn Learning, including courses on diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging. Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies The Women’s, Gender, & Sexuality Studies Program at Yale offers a variety of courses and an undergraduate major (BA). The Program establishes gender and sexuality as fundamental categories of social and cultural analysis. The program also offers a Combined PhD and Certificate for Graduate students. Films and TV Series LGBTQ Streaming Check out these great films and tv series available on Amazon Prime, Netflix and Hulu. Also check out Revry, a global streaming network focused on queer content and creators. Yale Film Archive Collection of LGBT Films, DVDs, and Videos The Yale University Film Archive maintains an extensive collection of films, videos, and DVDs for use in teaching and research. Yale University Library: LGBTQ Film, Television, and Theater Collection The LGBTQ Film, Television, and Theater Collection primarily consists of screenplays, scripts, and photographs from productions that include characters, storylines, or cultural references to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer individuals, communities, or events. Yale in Hollywood LGBTQ in Film/TV Panel (2020) Watch a recorded panel discussion hosted in 2020 featuring Quentin Lee, Jennie Livingston, Brad Bailey, and Michael Rohrbaugh. Events Decolonizing Wellness: A QTBIPOC-Centered Guide to Escape the Diet Trap, Heal Your Self-Image, and Achieve Body Liberation June 9, noon to 1 pm Join the Asian Network at Yale, LGBTQ Affinity Group, Working Women’s Network, and Yale African American Affinity Group for a book talk with Dalia Kinsey, author of Decolonizing Wellness: A QTBIPOC-Centered Guide to Escape the Diet Trap, Heal Your Self-Image, and Achieve Body Liberation. Anti-Transgender Microaggressions and How to Intervene June 9, 5:30-6:30 pm Have you ever heard or witnessed something that seemed hurtful or harmful? Were you unsure of how to address the situation? During this session, participants can expect to learn about the three types of microaggressions and their impacts on transgender and non-binary communities. Once folks have an understanding of how to identify anti-transgender microaggressions, they will learn about and apply ways to intervene or address this harmful behavior. Different intervention strategies will be explored in order to give options for folks with different communication styles.Together, we will also discuss ways to support our loved ones, colleagues, and community members who are harmed by these types of microaggressions. Visit the Yale Events Calendar, as well as the Office of LGBTQ Resources and Yale’s LGBTQ Affinity Group for additional DEI and Belonging events and resources. Organizations and Centers of Engagement New Haven Pride Center The purpose of New Haven Pride Center, formerly the New Haven Gay and Lesbian Community Center, is to provide educational, cultural, and social enrichment for the LGBTQ+ community, its allies, and members, to make a positive contribution to the entire community of Greater New Haven. Office of Diversity and Inclusion The Office of Diversity & Inclusion (ODI) collaborates with departments and individuals across the Yale campus to promote a respectful, accessible, and inclusive community for all Yale employees. Office of Institutional Equity and Accessibility The Office of Institutional Equity and Accessibility (OIEA) is responsible for ensuring Yale’s commitment to equitable and inclusive working and learning environments. This includes administering Yale’s Policy Against Discrimination and Harassment. Office of Gender and Campus Culture The Office of Gender and Campus Culture works to foster positive dynamics within the Yale College community. Drawing upon research on gender disparities in academic and other institutional settings, as well as on effective strategies for creating change, the OGCC collaborates with students, administrators, faculty, and staff from within and beyond the College on a wide range of initiatives. Yale LGBTQ Affinity Group The Yale LGBTQ Affinity Group was created in 2008 to foster a more welcoming and respectful campus community for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer individuals, and their allies with a primary focus on retention and edification of Yale employees. The group is open to all Yale staff, faculty, and postdocs, representing a diverse range of departments and interests at Yale. Yale GALA, Yale University’s Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Alumni Association Yale GALA is an educational and cultural organization that seeks to promote the well-being and betterment of the Yale University gay and lesbian community, including alumni, faculty, staff, students, and the public at large. Yale Office of LGBTQ Resources The Office of LGBTQ Resources supports and empowers students, faculty, staff, and alumni of all sexual orientations, gender identities, and expressions to strengthen and unite our Yale community. It provides resources and support for community, education, and advocacy. The office is a cultural hub that works with local and national organizations to address issues of policy, praxis, and politics and aims to increase visibility, connectedness, and knowledge of queer culture. Social Media Channels American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU): Facebook | Instagram | Twitter Bisexual Resource Center: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter CampusPride: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | YouTube Center for Black Equity: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter Equality Federation: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter Family Equality Council: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter GLADD: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | YouTube GLSEN: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | YouTube GSA Network: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter Human Rights Campaign: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter Immigration Equality: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter Movement Advancement Project: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter National Center for Transgender Equality: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter Lambda Legal: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter Latino Equality Alliance: Facebook | Instagram | YouTube Matthew Shepard Foundation: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter Modern Military Association of America (MMAA): Facebook | Instagram | Twitter National Center for Lesbian Rights: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter National LGBTQ Task Force: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter National Queer Asian Pacific Islander Alliance (NQAPIA): Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | YouTube Parents, Friends & Family of Lesbian and Gays (PFLAG): Facebook | Instagram | Twitter Sylvia Rivera Law Project: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter Services and Advocacy for LGBTQ+ Elders (SAGE): Facebook | Instagram | Twitter The Trevor Project: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter Transgender Law Center: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter Yale Office of LGBTQ Resources: Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | YouTube Additional Resources Belonging at Yale - University-Wide Support Resources Every member of our community should have the opportunity to feel safe, supported, and seen. Yale has multiple resources for students, faculty, and staff who need guidance, assistance, or information; or who want to discuss or report an incident of discrimination, harassment, or sexual misconduct. Examples of these resources include: Office of Institutional Equity and Access, Resources to Discuss Discrimination and Harassment Concerns, and more. Coming Out Guides Coming Out is the process in which an individual a) accepts and identifies with their gender identity and/or sexual orientation and b) shares their identity willingly with others. Review helpful information developed by Yale’s Office of LGBTQ Resources on navigating the coming out process. Initiative on Race, Gender, and Globalization The Initiative on Race Gender and Globalization (IRGG) at Yale University was established at the beginning of the 2004-2005 academic year with the support of the Office of the Provost. The IRGG seeks to internationalize the undergraduate and graduate curricula through scholarly events, conferences, and courses that foster intellectual exchange across geographic borders, academic fields, and political perspectives. LGBTQ+ Personal Wellness Resources Faculty and Staff have access to Pride 365+, which offers information, resources, and toolkit materials to create equitable, affirming, and supportive environments for LGBTQ+ members and their families. To access these resources and to connect with supportive LGBTQ+ peers and allies through active discussion boards and live chat groups, visit liveandworkwell.com, enter as a guest with your company access code (YaleSB), and select the Sanvello app in the popular tools tab. Resources on Gender and Identity Pronouns Pronouns are linguistic tools that we use to refer to people. In our efforts to respect the diverse identities of our communities, it is important to use the pronoun that people prefer when referring to them. Send a Message of Love to Transgender and Gender Diverse Young People With the continued and the increasing onslaught of policies and bills that discriminate against and harm our transgender and gender diverse youth, The Center for LGBTQ+ Research & Advocacy invites all of us to send a message of love. They are collecting any words you choose to share to speak to the value and humanity of and love for our youth. Trans Resources at Yale Access resources for transgender, gender nonconforming, genderqueer and gender questioning students, staff, faculty, and postdoctoral fellows at Yale. Yale Research Initiative on the History of Sexualities The Yale Research Initiative on the History of Sexualities is dedicated to fostering research and theoretical reflection on the history of sexualities, especially as they intersect with other axes of social difference and inequality. It promotes inquiry into lesbian, gay, and transgender history, and the role of sexuality in the history of the self, culture, nation, and empire. Based in the Department of History, the Initiative sponsors lectures, workshops, symposia, and collaborative research. Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications