Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Community > Public Safety > Police > Approach to Policing Approach to Policing Supporting and Protecting the Community Commitment to Training Advisory Committee on Community Policing First Amendment (Freedom of Speech) The Yale Police Department (YPD) places a priority on the safety and security of all members of the community, including the 20,000 students, faculty, staff, and many more campus visitors. As a best-in-class police force, the YPD is committed to assessing the department’s operations, policies and procedures and to implementing policing practices endorsed by national experts. As a part of that on-going assessment, the YPD has in the last year enhanced its community outreach and engagement efforts and realigned its organization to better address community concerns. Resources Announcement: The Yale Police Department in a Time of Historic Change Report: An Assessment of the Yale Police Department by 21CP Solutions Police by the Numbers Supporting and Protecting the Community Tragedies that have occurred on other campuses in past years, including mass shootings, require that YPD officers must be fully prepared to respond quickly to any life-threatening emergency situation that might arise on campus. To address these concerns: Officers who are sanctioned to carry firearms are required to regularly complete intensive training centered around multicultural awareness, recognition of signs of mental illness, and de-escalation techniques. The existing use of force (UOF) policy requires de-escalation tactics to be employed prior to UOF, whenever possible. Officers are also required to intervene, stop and immediately report any incidents of excessive use of force by a fellow police officer. All Officers are required to wear Body Worn Cameras (BWC) and policy requires it to be activated at all times when interacting with the public. Officers are subject to discipline if found to not be adhering to policy. The YPD works closely with the New Haven Police Department to ensure that both departments oversee agreed-upon designated areas. Commitment to Training All Yale University Police Officers must maintain their certification throughout their careers and receive additional training through in-service training programs sponsored by the department or other local, state, or federal agencies. Our training includes: An excess of 818 hours of basic recruit training. 12 weeks of supervised Field Training, under the supervision of specially trained Field Training Officers. Advisory Committee on Community Policing The primary objective of the Advisory Committee on Community Policing (ACCP) is to plan, creatively problem-solve, and actively engage in innovative strategies promoting public safety and a sense of belonging and mutual understanding between police and the campus community. The Advisory Committee on Community Policing meets four times per academic year. Recent topics reviewed during the February 2020 meeting include: Update on what public safety is doing to address crime, and what the community can do. Community engagement update: shared police community liaison program, and asked committee for feedback. 2020 priorities: safety & crime prevention discussion, LiveSafe, and Uber. First Amendment (Freedom of Speech) The Yale University Police Department is dedicated to protecting the Yale and surrounding communitys’ First Amendment right to freedom of speech, and the right to exercise that freedom through peaceful assembly, demonstrate, protest, or rally, while also protecting the lives and property of the community. Additional Information Yale President Peter Salovey statement on free speech at Yale Yale College Free Expression resources Report of the Committee on Freedom of Expression at Yale Yale Police general order regarding First Amendment Activities Police Executive Command Staff Communications Division ITS Unit Patrol Division Investigative Services Unit Training and Professional Unit Compliance & Analysis General Orders and Standard Operating Procedures Training Use of Force Victim Services Approach to Policing Chief Higgins Welcomes Yale Students Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications