Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Work at Yale > Careers > Employee Referral Program Employee Referral Program Do you know someone who would be an asset to our community? Now through the end of this calendar year, the University is offering a referral award to employees who help bring talented professionals to Yale. If an external candidate you refer is qualified and hired into a position that is identified as meeting the Employee Referral Program eligibility criteria, you will receive an employee referral award of $1,500, less applicable taxes. This referral award will be increased by $500, less applicable taxes, for external candidate referrals who are New Haven residents at the time of their application. Referral awards will be paid within 90 days of the candidate’s hire date. Review Featured Jobs Referral Process Employee Eligibility Referral Candidate Criteria Award Payment Eligible Positions FAQs Referral Process The candidate must name the referring employee on their application during the initial application process, as shown below. A Human Resources Talent Acquisition/Staffing team member will validate the referral. After the candidate is hired into the position, the employee referral award will be processed through the payroll system. Employee Eligibility Effective April 18, 2022: Faculty, post-doctoral associates, Cedarhurst employees, and benefit eligible managerial and professional (M&P) staff and clerical and technical (C&T) staff who are excluded from the bargaining unit are eligible to participate. Effective June 1, 2022: Benefit eligible union represented clerical and technical (C&T), service and maintenance (S&M), police (YPBA), and security (YUSOA) are eligible to participate. This applies to offers extended and accepted on or after June 1, 2022. Retroactive awards for offers extended prior to June 1, 2022 will not be honored. The following individuals are not eligible to participate: Members of the University Cabinet. Hiring managers, for their own hires. Temporary/casual employees, and student employees. To receive payment, referring employees must: Be employed by Yale University at the time of the referral and at the time the referral payment is being processed. Confirm the referral candidate to qualify for payment. Be willing to provide a reference for the referral candidate. Referral Candidate Criteria Referral candidates include new applicants, as well as existing applicants in the STARS database and prior university employees who left in good standing. Referral candidate must be hired into a benefit level position. Award Payment Eligible employees will receive $1,500 for each successfully referred candidate hired into any benefit level staff position. This referral award will be increased by $500 for external candidate referrals who are New Haven residents at the time of their application. Additional details on the award include: There is no limit to the number of referral awards an employee can receive. Rewards will be paid via Yale’s payroll system within 90 days of the referral candidate’s start date. Referral awards are considered income and will be subject to all applicable taxes. Referral awards will be centrally funded. Eligible Positions All benefit level staff positions. Frequently Asked Questions When am I eligible to make a referral? There is no waiting period, you can begin making referrals immediately. Effective April 18, 2022: Faculty, post-doctoral associates, Cedarhurst employees, and benefit eligible& managerial and professional (M&P)staff and clerical and technical (C&T) staff who are excluded from the bargaining unit are eligible to receive the bonus if their referral candidate is offered and accepts a position on or after April 18, 2022. Effective June 1, 2022: In addition to the groups above, union represented clerical and technical (C&T), service and maintenance (S&M), police (YPBA), and security (YUSOA) are eligible to receive the bonus. This applies for offers extended and accepted on or after June 1, 2022. Retroactive awards for offers extended prior to June 1, 2022 will not be honored. During this process, should the candidate or referring employee contact the hiring manager or the Staffing representative? No. Neither party needs to reach out to the hiring manager or Staffing representative. Staffing will follow the process that has been defined and will reach out to both the candidate and the employee who made the referral if the candidate is hired for the position. Will I be notified if my referral candidate applies, interviews, or is hired? No. Due to privacy concerns, Human Resources cannot share employment status. However, you may contact the referral candidate directly. How can employees share information about available positions with their network and external contacts? To find current opportunities for external candidates, go to the Career page, select ‘Search Jobs at Yale,’ and select ‘External Applicants.’ Search open positions by req# or keyword. Once you find the position, copy the page URL and share it via email or on your LinkedIn page. Candidates will be able to review and apply for the position. How does my referral provide my name to Yale? When applying for the job, the referral candidate must select “Employee Referral” when asked, “Where did you hear about this position?” and must include the referring employee’s full name along with job title, department, and phone number in the freeform textbox requesting the referral’s information. Please note that the response cannot be edited after the application is submitted. What happens if a referral candidate has more than one referral listed? The recruiter will confirm with the referral candidate which employee should be credited for the referral. How will my referral reward appear on my paycheck/payslip in Workday? Your award will be included as “Additional Compensation” in your paycheck/payslip. Get Social Spread the word—copy and paste the text below to share with your social network. Are you interested in a career at Yale University? Would you like to learn more about Yale’s outstanding benefits, development opportunities, and cultural enrichment? Message me today to find out more about our open positions and how I can help you in your job search. Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications