Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Work at Yale > Careers > Explore Additional Careers Explore Additional Careers Whether you’re a Librarian, Curator or Archivist, Yale offers a wide range of roles for a rewarding career. In fact, some Yale employees stay as long as fifty years and enjoy a lifetime of career growth. Search current openings in Athletics, Development, Facilities, Human Resources and Administration, Museums, Galleries, and Libraries, and more. Committed to excellence The Yale University Library is one of the world’s leading research libraries, made up of fifteen different libraries and locations. The library collects, organizes, preserves, and provides access to a unique record of human thought and creativity. The library’s resources come in all forms, from ancient papyri to early printed books to electronic databases. The library is a leader in developing, using, and teaching technology to help students, faculty, staff, and researchers find and use library resources. With more than 500 employees, the library offers a wide range of jobs and career paths. The library’s special collections are large and exceptionally varied. They include, for example, the 15th century Gutenberg Bible in the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, rare music recordings in the Gilmore Music Library, and artifacts of Yale University’s more than 300-year history in Manuscripts and Archives. These collections complement the renowned collections of the Yale Art Gallery, the Yale Center for British Art, and the Yale Peabody Museum. Together, Yale’s museums and libraries provide varied career opportunities for working with and preserving rare materials and objects, and helping people to learn from them. Careers include: Library Services Assistant, Archives Assistant, Museum Technician, Conservation Technician Librarian, Curator, and various leadership opportunities within Meet a member of our team: Julie Linden, Director of Collection Development Julie Linden began her Yale career in September 2000, as the Data and Electronic Resources Librarian in the Social Science Library. Over the next decade, her job responsibilities grew and shifted. She became a supervisor of clerical and technical staff in the Government Documents Center, worked on a Mellon Foundation-funded grant to digitize library materials, and served as an interim co-director of the Social Science Libraries & Information Services. From 2007-2012, Julie was the Librarian for Political Science, International Affairs, and Government Information, providing services to faculty and students in those subject areas and across campus. As of 2011, Julie’s career trajectory began to shift toward “collection development,” the area of librarianship concerned with ensuring that the library’s collections support campus research and teaching needs. Julie has been the library’s Director of Collection Development since January 2017; in that role, she leads budget and policy development for collections in all formats – books, journals, digitized archives, streaming media, databases, and more. Careers Search Jobs at Yale New Haven Hiring Initiative Wage Ranges Student and Temporary Employee Salary Rates Find Your Recruiter Internships Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications