Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Work at Yale > Manager Toolkit > Recruiting and Hiring > Hiring Guide > Background Checks Background Checks The objective of a background check is to create a consistent, thorough and reliable pre-employment screening program, intended to confirm the background of candidates as they present it, using data that is freshly retrieved so that Yale may hire the best and most appropriate candidate for the job. Due to various hiring and employment laws and governmental regulations, as well as different screening requirements for many university departments, the maintenance of a centralized and consistent pre-employment program is necessary. Pre-employment screening has assisted HR and the Staffing and Career Development Office in achieving one of its top goals; placing the right person in the right job at the right time. A thorough and reliable background check is vital in determining whether a candidate will be an asset or a liability to a department. It can also save time and money by avoiding staff turnover and rehiring. Specific guidelines apply to each group and are described in related sections below. Background Check Request Forms to be completed by a Yale employee Yale Student Employment/ Volunteer Background Check Request Form Internal Background Check Request Form Subcontractor/Self-employed Vendor/Consultant Background Check Request Form Background Check Process General information Yale’s current vendor, HireRight, conducts background checks under the direction of Yale Human Resources for new hires, casual employees, and postdoctoral/postgraduate fellows and associates. Background checks for temporary services are conducted by the vendor. The estimated cycle time for a routine background check is approximately three days. Some checks may take up to 10 days depending on the prompt collection of information from candidates and HireRight’s ability to collect data from various states or countries. For background checks conducted by HireRight, Human Resources serves as the office of record for the background check results and maintains strict confidentiality. Departments do not receive any details of the background check, only a notification of whether the results do or do not meet Yale policy. New hires Who needs a background check For all new employees, the background check includes a criminal history check, previous employment, verification of education, as well as verification of social security number. Positions that require driving will require a motor vehicle check. Individuals who will be driving a commercial motor vehicle will be required to meet the annual requirements as outlined by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations. Positions that work in any of the following areas: Museums, Galleries, certain Libraries, Special Collections (storage facility, included), President’s House or Office, Provost’s House or Office, Yale College Dean’s House or at any location(s) which stores, displays contains, or houses special collections either owned by that location or on loan from Museums, Galleries or Libraries; or have responsibility for financial transactions or the handling of cash valued at or in excess of $50,000 at any point in time will require a credit check. Current employees will only need to have a new background check if the individual has a break in service for more than six months or the individual moves into a position that requires an additional credit or motor vehicle check. How the process works Candidates give authorization for the pre-employment screening at the time they register and apply for a position through the STARS gateway. During the extension of the job offer, a staffing representative will notify the candidate of the pre-employment screening requirement and the candidate will be asked to complete a background check form. A candidate that has been identified as a final candidate for a position is required to submit an online background check form within Yale’s STARS system and an authorization form that is sent to them by our vendor, HireRight. The hiring manager does not need to complete any paperwork. Candidates will also receive the Summary of Your Rights under the Fair Credit Reporting Act for their records. Once the screening is complete, HireRight will notify Human Resources with the results. A Human Resources representative will contact the candidate and the hiring department via e-mail with those results. Candidates may also log into HireRight to track their status. Only candidates who meet Yale’s policy will be hired or transferred into new positions. If a candidate does not meet Yale policy, the conditional offer of employment will be rescinded. In this event, HireRight will mail the candidate the report outlining the results of the background check and an email will be sent to the candidate from preemploymentscreening@yale.edu explaining the decision. The candidate then has an opportunity to dispute HireRight’s findings within seven days. The department must hold open the position for the seven-day dispute filing period, or until the dispute has been resolved, whichever is greater. Disputes HireRight processes any and all disputes. They will send the candidate an Adverse Action Letter that will outline the results of the background check and will outline instructions for how to dispute these findings if they are incorrect. Additional inquiries can be sent to preemploymentscreening@yale.edu or by writing to: HireRight Customer Service Phone: 866-521-6995 If HireRight finds that results require further review, such as a criminal record (all felonies and some misdemeanors), the candidate’s application will be referred to the Yale Pre-employment Review committee. The review committee is comprised of members from General Counsel, Risk Management, and Human Resources and is responsible for determining if the candidate’s background check meets policy. Accurate representation of work and education is mandatory on resumes and any materials affiliated with the application process, inclusive of background check documents; falsification will not meet Yale policy and candidates who falsify their resumes are not eligible for hire. Employees may be subject to termination if identified at a later date. Contact Us For questions regarding the process or status of a background check, send e-mail to preemploymentscreening@yale.edu; a member of the Pre-employment Screening Team will respond. Postdoctoral/postgraduate fellows and associates All candidates for postdoctoral/postgraduate fellow and associate positions who have lived or worked in the United States and have a United States Social Security number will be required to successfully complete a background check before starting work at Yale. If a current postdoctoral/postgraduate is transferring to another job category at Yale and the individual has not had a standard background check, then he/she will be required to complete the check. The only exceptions will be if they are a current Yale graduate student moving to a Yale postdoctoral assignment. All postdoctoral and postgraduate fellows and associates who have never lived or worked in the United States need to successfully complete a federal background check to obtain a work visa; this government background check is sufficient to meet Yale’s requirements. The following steps are required to process a background check for a postdoctoral/postgraduate fellow or associate: NOTE: A background check is required for all candidates who are either U.S. Citizens, U.S. Permanent Residents, or who are currently in the U.S. on a non-immigrant visa and have a United States Social Security number. (A candidate outside the U. S. who requires a U.S. visa will be considered to have met Yale policy on background check upon issuance of the visa.) Faculty Member/Principal Investigator is in contact with potential candidate. Faculty Member/Principal Investigator notifies department of intention to bring on a postdoctoral/postgraduate fellow or associate as soon as practical. If a candidate requires a transfer of his/her immigration status to Yale, the department immediately contacts the Office of International Students and Scholars (OISS). Department creates a requisition in STARS using the postdoc requisition template, selecting the appropriate job title. Department completes the requisition form indicating name of person to be hired, anticipated start date, and salary information; posts position to STARS Postdoc Gateway, and sends posting link to candidate via email. Candidate follows link to postdoc job posting, and applies to position, uploading CV and other required application materials via his/her STARS account. Office for Postdoctoral Affairs reviews the candidate application materials for completeness and requests additional documents of candidate if necessary. Office for Postdoctoral Affairs also determines whether candidate requires a background check based on rules mentioned above. If candidate requires background check, the check will be initiated from within the STARS system, which will send a background check form to candidate for completion and return to Yale via submission inside STARS. After the candidate completes the background check form and submits it back to Yale, the background check is initiated with Yale’s background check vendor, HireRight. Once the BGC Coordinator receives the outcome, and if candidate meets Yale policy, the Office for Postdoctoral Affairs and the department will receive notification to proceed with the hire. If the candidate requires a transfer of his/her immigration status to Yale, departments must inform OISS that the individual meets Yale policy. OISS will not submit the application to the immigration service until this confirmation is received. Should a candidate not meet Yale policy, that information will be communicated to the department by the BGC Coordinator. The Office for Postdoctoral Affairs office hires the individual in STARS and the Postdoctoral/Postgraduate receives his/her confirmation letter. Temporary employees Temporary employees are required to successfully complete a standard background check prior to beginning their assignment. They will be asked to complete a background check again in the future if any of the following circumstances apply: The temporary assignment changes. The individual’s Yale ID expires and/or the individual requires new or additional access to his/her current access. The employee worked at the university in the past but ended that position more than six months prior. If the temporary employee has a break in service of less than six months the individual could still be subject to a credit and/or a motor vehicle check if the assignment requires these additional checks. The following steps are required to process a background check for a temporary employee: Departments with temporary needs are to submit a temporary request to Staffing by completing the Temporary Requisition Submittal Form in Workday. After the requisition is processed through Staffing and approved, the position will be “Opened”. Members of the requisition team will receive such notification. Both the hiring manager and the primary requisition contact will receive an e-Link to the Temporary Worker Data Collection form. After the form is completed, and the “save” button is selected, the form returns to Staffing for processing. At the current time, the Staffing office creates a candidate profile if one does not already exist for your temporary worker and initiates the background check promptly. There is no additional request form needed from the department. For additional reference on the temporary process, visit the link referenced above. The BGC Coordinator sends the candidate an e-mail from HireRight to complete a profile as well as the necessary forms to conduct the background check. If the BGC Coordinator does not receive the information from the candidate in a timely manner, the BGC Coordinator will inform the primary department contact. After the completed forms are submitted and signed by candidate to HireRight, the background check is initiated. Once the BGC Coordinator receives the outcome, and if candidate meets Yale policy, the BGC Coordinator notifies the primary department contact via e-mail. The temporary employee may begin working and obtain their Yale ID. Temporary employees who work less than thirty (30) days per year require a background check. The following individuals will not require a background check regardless of the length of time they will be working: Retiree temporaries Yale Student temporary employees (unless working in restricted areas such as museums, galleries or with special collections) A background check will be required when a Yale student temporary employee becomes a regular temporary employee. If a temporary employee who is hired into a regular position has not previously completed a standard background check, then the individual will need to do so prior to starting as a regular employee. If the temporary employee has completed a background check, and has not had a break in service of greater than six months since that check was completed, then the individual will not be required to complete a new background check. However, depending on the job requirements, it is possible that additional background checks (such as motor vehicle or credit check) may be required. Volunteers and Unpaid Interns in Museums/Galleries/Special Collections Volunteers and Unpaid Interns in the Yale Museums/Galleries/Special Collections are required to successfully complete a criminal and credit background check prior to beginning their assignment. They will be asked to complete a background check again in the future if any of the following circumstances apply: They begin employment in a temporary or staff assignment. The candidate worked at the university in the past but ended that position more than six months prior.) The University brings volunteers on campus to conduct activities associated with the museums and galleries. Volunteer programs are not supported in other areas across campus. The following steps are required to process a background check for a Volunteer or Unpaid Intern in the Museums/Galleries/Special Collections: Departments with volunteer/unpaid intern needs are to submit a Yale Student and Volunteer Background Check Request form. At the current time, the Staffing office creates a candidate profile if one does not already exist for your volunteer/unpaid intern and initiates the background check promptly. The BGC Coordinator sends the volunteer/unpaid intern an e-mail from HireRight to complete the necessary online form to conduct the background check. If the BGC Coordinator does not receive the information from the volunteer in a timely manner, the BGC Coordinator will inform the primary department contact. After the completed forms are signed and submitted by the volunteer/unpaid intern to HireRight, the background check is initiated. Once the BGC Coordinator receives the outcome, and if volunteer/unpaid intern meets Yale policy, the BGC Coordinator notifies the primary department contact via e-mail. The candidate may begin volunteering or their unpaid internship. Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications