Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Community > Public Safety > Resources > Yale Citizen’s Police & Public Safety Academy Yale Citizen’s Police & Public Safety Academy The Citizen’s Police and Public Safety Academy will take place sometime in the spring Chief Ronnell Higgins of the YPD invites members of the Yale and New Haven community to attend the academy. The program provides an increased understanding and awareness of police and security operations and responsibilities including: investigative services (CSI vs. Reality): patrol procedures; personal safety; Whitney, the bomb detection dog; a tour of the facility; state-of- the-art communications/technology, emergency preparedness, and firearms. In addition, the course incorporates classroom training and hands-on activities. This six-week program is free of charge and runs every Tuesday from 6:00 to 8:30 p.m. Classes are held at the Yale University Police Department at 101 Ashmun Street and registration is required. Applicants must be 18 years of age and a member of the Yale or New Haven Community. Space is limited; participation is on a first come first served basis. Applications must be submitted 10 days prior to day one of the Yale Citizen’s Police & Public Safety Academy. REGISTRATION IS CURRENTLY CLOSED. Registration is a 2-step process: Register online Download and print the application and assumption of risk waiver Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications