Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Work at Yale > Benefits > Yale Signature Benefits Yale Signature Benefits Yale provides many unique and valuable benefits and resources to help you and your family. Whether you are in need of counseling support, financial planning assistance, or help with balancing family and work responsibilities, Yale’s Signature Benefits have you covered every step of the way. Learn more about Personal Wellness, Financial Wellness, and WorkLife. Personal Wellness Yale’s Personal Wellness Signature Benefits provide eligible staff, faculty, post-doctoral associates, and their household members up to six free confidential counseling sessions per issue—24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Download EAP Card Flyer Request Support Call 866-416-6586 Visit Optum’s website: liveandworkwell Browse resources as a guest using access code YaleSB (no registration required) Services Capture your mood, or manage stressful situations using the Sanvello app. Talkspace helps you engage with a licensed therapist, 24/7, via text, voice, or virtual video message. Call 866-416-6586 to obtain an authorization code prior to registering (first visit only). Schedule a virtual or in-person session with our dedicated counselor, Dr. Amy Sceery. Additional Resources Access resources on how to manage stress, improve relationships, and more. Financial Wellness Whether you are buying a new home, sending your children to college, or saving for a comfortable retirement, Yale’s Financial Wellness Signature Benefits are available to support the important events in your life and to help you plan for your financial future. Education Support Educational Assistance Programs Child Scholarship Program College Coach Family Adoption Support MetLife legal program (available to non-union employees) Savings and Retirement Commuter Benefits Flexible Spending Accounts Healthy Planet Green Benefits Homebuyer Program TIAA Retirement Savings Yale Advantages Additional Resources Access resources on how to save money, no-cost 30-minute attorney consultation, and more. WorkLife Yale’s WorkLife Signature Benefits are an integral part of the university’s efforts to help faculty and staff balance the multiple responsibilities associated with work, academic, and personal life. Resources WorkLife Signature Benefits Ovia Health Flexible Work Arrangements Workshops and Webinars Services Solutions for Caregiver Eldercare and Support Services ReThink (enrollment code: YaleRethink) Parenting Support Order a Life Event Kit Convenience Services Additional Resources Access resources on how to deal with stress, assistance with financial aid, and more. Benefits Health Benefits My Benefits by Job Classification Financial Benefits Leaves of Absence Paid Time Off WorkLife and Childcare Yale Signature Benefits Adoption Support at Yale Educational Assistance Programs at Yale Healthy Planet Green Benefits Homebuyer Program Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications