Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Work at Yale > Careers > Explore Information Technology Careers Explore Information Technology Careers Whether you’re a Desktop Support Technician who enjoys troubleshooting and assisting students and faculty or a Senior Director of IT who is passionate about aligning our mission with technology and shaping the future our services, Yale offers a range of rewarding careers in information technology (IT). Search current openings for information technology careers. Also, learn more about IT career programs for rotational career development program, currect college students, and high school students. Committed to excellence IT professionals across Yale are committed to providing the highest level of service to students, faculty, and staff, and delivering technology leadership that advances the University’s mission. Learn more about IT at Yale and its commitment to excellence, including opportunities to: Be a part of a diverse team that supports innovation and collaboration Career advancement and endless opportunities within several smaller organizations under one Yale that provides support at every stage of your career development Being a part of cutting edge and emerging technologies that allows for creativity and continuous learning IT careers include: ITS Early Career Development (Intern), Linux Technical Support, Systems Programmer, Business Systems Analyst, Software Developers/Engineer, IT Compliance Specialist, Senior Oracle Database Administrator, Senior Enterprise Architect, and Leadership positions. IT Career Programs Wolson Rotational Career Development Program If you have earned your undergraduate degree recently, or will soon, the Wolson Rotational Career Development Program in Yale IT can help you get started with your career. The 18-month, paid rotational program matches participants with positions throughout the organization and provides training, mentoring, and practical experience. Applications are now open for the 2022-2023 Wolson Rotational Career Development Program. Current College Students Looking for an exciting summer experience? Our IT Summer College Internship Program offers current college students 10-to-12 week paid positions in Yale’s Information Technology organization. You will work side-by-side with IT professionals on projects matched with your areas of interest and gain valuable work skills. Applications are now open for the 2022 IT Summer College Internship Program. High School Students The Yale IT High School Internship Program aims to attract young people to the field of information technology and nurture their interest. The program offers students from participating area high schools opportunities to work in Yale IT for six weeks during the summer. Eligible high schools nominate students to participate in the program. Students do not apply directly to Yale IT. Program is currenlty on hold. Careers Search Jobs at Yale New Haven Hiring Initiative Wage Ranges Student and Temporary Employee Salary Rates Find Your Recruiter Internships Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications