Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Work at Yale > Learn and Grow > Online Learning Online Learning Visit LinkedIn Learning Coursera for Campus at Yale LinkedIn Learning Coursera for Campus at Yale Professional Development Online Courses Leadership Development Online Courses Career Development Online Courses LinkedIn Learning Eligible faculty, student, and staff members can take advantage of LinkedIn Learning courses in leadership, professional development, creative media, and information technology. Its courses are designed for in-depth and just-in-time instruction at various skill levels. The platform also offers some of the same courses in German, Spanish, French, Japanese, Mandarin or Brazilian Portuguese languages. View a small sampling of topics and courses. Explore, Learn, and Grow Go to LinkedIn Learning and log in with your Yale netID and password. If you have been working with Lynda.com courses, you will find all learner-specific data has migrated when you activated your account. Connecting your LinkedIn Profile with your LinkedIn Learning account is optional. Initially, you will be asked twice if you want to connect your LinkedIn Profile to your LinkedIn Learning account. If you choose not to link your profile to your account, you can still log into LinkedIn Learning. You can decide to link your profile to your account at a later date, if desired. View the Getting Started with LinkedIn Learning guide. Showcase your professional growth and development at Yale and enter your completed courses or certifications into your Workday Talent Profile. Consult the Learn and Grow page to find out about other learning and career development opportunities at Yale. Details Courses are broken down into multiple 2 – 10 minute segments. Take the entire course or review an individual segment. Practice using downloadable exercise files demonstrated in the video, where applicable. LinkedIn Learning allows you to customize your privacy settings. If you choose to connect your LinkedIn Profile to your LinkedIn Learning account, Yale will only be able to view your learning activity, profile information (photo, name, work title), and courses transferred to your group account. Aggregate data on skills within the organization will also be collected based on skills identified by Yale employees in their public LinkedIn profiles. Learn more about LinkedIn Learning’s privacy and account security If at any point users wish to disconnect their account, you may do so using the following steps: Click Disconnect on the appearing popup. Click Disconnect my account. Scroll down to the option to disconnect your LinkedIn account from your LinkedIn Learning account provided by your organization. Click the Settings tab. Navigate to the Me icon located at the top righthand side of the screen. Contact the IT Help Desk with any questions. Recommended courses may not reflect Yale practices or policies. Please refer to your Human Resources Generalist (HRG) for more tailored support. For information on in-person training, visit the Learn and Grow page. (Due to COVID-19, many of the in-person courses have been transitioned into the virtual environment. We will return to in-person trainings when appropriate.) Coursera for Campus at Yale All faculty and staff have access to Yale’s courses on Coursera, for free, for a completion certificate. Faculty and Staff may access these courses by signing onto Coursera for Campus with their netID. Click the Program Link to join. Login and Start Learning Click on this Program Link Click “Join for Free” You will be prompted to “Log in with Yale” Log in with your yale.edu netID credentials. You will be routed back to the Coursera platform and can start enrolling in Yale courses. A Learner guide is available for help and additional information. Details All courses will appear under ‘Browse Catalog.’ Yale faculty and staff created each and every course in this catalog. Once you enroll in a course, your progress will appear under ‘My Courses.’ You will join thousands of learners around the globe accessing our content. Your completion certificate is sharable on your LinkedIn profile. Professional Development Online Courses and Collections Note: (c) indicates the link leads to a collection of courses. Topic Online Course Stress Management Managing Stress (c) Take a Moment to Self-Reflect, Self-Assess (c) Technology Skills Excel Essential Training (Office365/Microsoft 365) Illustrator CC 2019 One-on-One: Fundamentals InDesign CC 2019 Essential Training Microsoft Essentials (Office 365) Outlook Essential Training (Office365/Microsoft 365) Photoshop CC 2019 Essential Training: The Basics Word Essential Training (Office365/Microsoft 365) Workplace Skills Career Planning Developing and Enhancing Soft Skills (c) Developing Ourselves (c) Handling Workplace Change as an Employee Mindfulness Practices Moving Classroom Training Online (c) Professional Development (c) Public Speaking Foundations Working Remotely Leadership Development Online Courses and Collection Topic ONLINE Course Manager Fundamentals Coaching and Developing Employees Finance for Non-Financial Managers Leading During a Time of Crisis (c) New Manager Foundations Team Management Having Difficult Conversations Managing Teams Project Management Foundations, teams Improve Your Coaching Skills as a Manager (c) Managers – Coaching and Developing Staff (c) Managing Remote Teams (c) Collaboration Leading with Emotional Intelligence Decision Making Change Management Training Critical Thinking Decision Making Strategies Performance Management Coaching and Feedback (c) Performance Feedback (c) Career Development Online Courses Topic Online Course Resume Writing Building your resume roadmap Writing resumes and cover letters Tailoring your resume Refine your resume Cover Letter Cover letter tips Intent of the cover letter Writing a cover letter Crafting an effective cover letter Interviewing Internal interviewing Mastering common interview questions Interview master class How to use a resume during an interview Networking Creating great first impressions Building a professional network Giving your elevator pitch Social success at work Building relationships (for managers) Informational Interviewing Informational interviewing course Use informational interviews to your advantage Online Presence Learning LinkedIn LinkedIn profiles for social business success Managing your online reputation Social networking and online etiquette Mentoring Coaching versus mentoring Getting a mentor and being a mentor Being a good mentee Building professional relationships Mentoring others (for managers) Be a mentor (for managers) Individual Development Plans Create a personal development plan Personal development plan Experiential Learning Develop a learning mindset Getting the most from learning opportunities Learn actively and experientially Prioritize learning opportunities Creating a culture of learning (for managers) Learn and Grow Training Career Development Spotlight: Delight Customers with Superior Service Experiences Related Resources Getting started with LinkedIn Learning Video How to use LinkedIn Learning Video LinkedIn Learning Help LinkedIn Learning User Guide LinkedIn Learning Mobile Guide Coursera for Campus at Yale Zoom, Yale Audio, and Video Conferencing Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications