Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Community > Public Safety > Yale Police Department Yale Police Department The Yale Police Department (YPD) has 93 uniformed police officers who protect and serve the campus 24 hours a day, every day of the year. Yale’s police officers patrol the campus in SUVs, on motorcycles, bikes and on walking patrols. The Yale Police also provide advocacy and support for members of the community who have experienced a crime, and the department works to solve crimes through its investigative services and analysis units. Yale Police is committed to being fully transparent with the University community. We continually improve our lines of communication with students, faculty, and staff and have developed community outreach and engagement programs, committees, and comprehensive officer training programs to ensure an accountable agency. We also work closely with local, state, and federal police agencies (including the FBI, Secret Service, and Department of Justice) on campus events, regional law enforcement matters, training, and significant investigations concerning the campus community. Our Values Our organization is bound together by core values and principles that we all share. Those values form the ethical basis for our decision-making. As individuals and as an organization, we subscribe to these values: Integrity: Basing our decisions on what is legally and ethically right, safeguarding the legal rights, privileges, and dignity of all people. Trust: Maintaining the highest level of trust and honesty with those we serve by holding ourselves to the highest standards of performance. Commitment: Exhibiting the spirit of determination and dedication that leads to professionalism and the achievement of excellence in every endeavor. Courage: Sustaining the mental, moral, and physical strength necessary to carry us through the challenges of policing. Professional Standards The Yale University Police Department takes very seriously its obligation to investigate all allegations of police misconduct and will take appropriate action when warranted. Yale police officers are trained to follow the use of force policy to protect the life of those we serve. The process for reporting any complaint against any member of the department is simple and straightforward. Community members should contact Police Communications at 203-432-4400 and request to see a supervisory officer. A supervisor will respond and take the initial complaint, which most often can be resolved expeditiously at that level. Should any complaint require additional investigation, the matter will be referred to the Office of the Chief, which will assign the matter for investigation. Diversity A diverse police agency and inclusive environment increases transparency, promotes new ideas, performs at a higher level, and enhances the agency’s ability to continue to serve the community in an increasingly complex, competitive, and diverse world. Yale University has a progressive and diverse police department. Public Safety Police Executive Command Staff Communications Division ITS Unit Patrol Division Investigative Services Unit Training and Professional Unit Compliance & Analysis General Orders and Standard Operating Procedures Training Use of Force Victim Services Approach to Policing Chief Higgins Welcomes Yale Students Community Policing Partnerships Security Clery Statistics and Reporting Stay Safe on Campus Resources Careers Contact Us Feedback FAQ News Systems and Services Videos Contact Information EMERGENCIES: 911 Police: 203-432-4400 Security Services: 203-785-5555 Safe Rides or 2-Walk: 203-432-6330 203-432-WALK Comments, questions, tips: Email: safe@yale.edu Yale Police Department Address: 101 Ashmun Street Additional Information Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications