Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Research Support > Faculty Research Management Services Faculty Research Management Services Secure awards that advance your research Faculty Research Management Services (FRMS) provides non-medical school departments and their principal investigators with the resources and expert knowledge needed to compete for, manage, and renew sponsored awards. Pre-Award Directory Post-Award Directory Subject Matter Expertise FRMS offers a level of support to units that previously did not have access to high-level subject matter experts. With grant management services now in place, FRMS is able to strengthen compliance with research funding and mitigate risk on behalf of these units. Our staff combines a wide range of experience and expertise, and is committed to helping you secure awards that advance your research. By combining support services at every phase of the award process, FRMS serves as a single contact center for grant support needs. Determine if FRMS is right for your department The first step in developing a successful partnership is to form ajoint integration team with members from your department and FRMS. Through our client integration process we’ll gain a better understanding of your work, and identify your grants management needs and best ways to ensure a smooth transfer of both Pre-award and Post-award services. FRMS performs an institutional role as a central point of contact for PIs and acts a conduit to the Office of Sponsored Projects. Contact Us FRMS has combined a range of Pre-award and Post-award services to support non-medical school award efforts. Please give us a call to learn more about which services might be right for you and your department. Joanne Bentley, Director, Faculty Research Management Services 203-432-3914 joanne.bentley@yale.edu Pre-Award Support We help determine eligibility for grants and awards. Directory: Pre-Award Post-Award Support Principal investigator financial portfolio planning and management. Directory: Post-Award Faculty Research Management Services Pre-Award Support Pre-Award Directory Post-Award Support Post-Award Directory Pre and Post Award Assignments Frequently Asked Questions Related Links Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications