Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale Media Photo Galleries Get Social Staff Stories Videos Photo Galleries View images taken at recent events, throughout Yale’s campus, and more. Yale DAY-YVN 2021 Fall Social Graduations of staff members and loved ones inspire pride, joy Yale Center for British Art Get Social Join in on the fun with these tools to keep you connected. Chat Stickers Get chatty and send your work buddies a lively message using these stickers on mobile, zoom chat, or email. Ycards Recognize a colleague by sending a Ycard. Yale Instagram Follow Yale on Instagram and stay connected. Staff Stories Staff Spotlight – Maria Gutiérrez, Sustainability Engagement Manager Maria Guitérrez is on a mission—to integrate sustainable practices into Yale’s culture. As a sustainability engagement manager, Maria is part of a team whose charge is to advance sustainability in the scholarship and operations of the University. She works primarily with Yale students and has resurrected Spring Salvage—Yale’s annual resource recovery program, which had been on a two-year hiatus due to the pandemic. Recent Staff Stories IT Staff Spotlight – Jaime Tryon Facilities Staff Spotlight – Sammy Rodriguez Staff Spotlight – Norell Mascolo Staff Spotlight – Lisa Palumbo Staff Spotlight – Luis Baez Videos Discover recent videos highlighting our campus, staff, and recognition events. Staff Appreciation Day Long Service Recognition IT Careers Returning to Yale: Snapshots While some of Yale’s staff members have been working remotely since March 2020, others have been here all along, supporting the campus community. We have been sharing snapshots of life on campus over the last several months as more and more colleagues have returned and are returning—featuring our people, places, and traditions. Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications