Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Research Support > Export Controls Export Controls In the interest of protecting the national security, foreign policy and economic interests of the U.S., the federal government regulates the transfer of information, commodities, technology, and software which are of strategic importance to the U.S. As a result, there is a complex body of laws collectively referred to as “Export Controls.” Generally, Export Controls regulate the shipment or transfer, by whatever means, of controlled items, software, technology, or services out of U.S. (termed an “Export”). In addition, these regulations also restrict the release of certain information to foreign nationals here in the U.S. (referred to as a “Deemed Export”). In order to ensure compliance with Export Controls, Yale faculty and staff need to identify when their activities may trigger such regulations. When Export Controls do apply, individuals must take the appropriate steps to obtain any required governmental licenses, monitor and control access to restricted information, and safeguard all controlled materials. In addition, there are also regulations which target foreign countries and regimes, terrorists, international narcotics traffickers, and other individuals and entities engaged in activities which pose a threat to the U.S. Yale’s faculty and staff need to comply with the Office of Foreign Asset Control (Department of the Treasury) efforts to regulate and restrict transactions with embargoed / sanctioned countries, entities and individuals, including certain academic collaborations, financial transactions and exchanges of research materials and equipment. This web section has been designed to help you understand and comply with the export control regulations. Information on various export control topics can be found within this section. For help or information, please contact: Office of Export Controls Office of Research Administration, Yale University 25 Science Park - 3rd Floor, 150 Munson St Email: exports@yale.edu Export Controls Policy Statement From The Vice Provost For Research On Export Controls Policy Statement for U.S. Sanctions & Embargoes Implementation of Section 889 Summary Guidelines on Export Controls Government Regulations Yale Resources Government Resources Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications