Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Work at Yale > Learn and Grow > Training > Professional and Career Development Professional and Career Development Professional Development Career Development Continuous Learning Begins With You Possibilities are endless when you take the initiative to learn and grow as a professional at Yale. Developing an Individual Development Plan with your manager can open the door to a new career direction. Completing your Talent Profile helps your manager understand your background and the unique skills you bring to Yale. Build confidence by sharing new knowledge with colleagues or find a mentor by joining an Affinity Group. There are numerous opportunities at Yale to learn and grow. Learn New Skills, Polish Existing Ones The University provides extensive opportunities to develop your skills and grow—within or beyond your current role—throughout your entire Yale career. Grow From Your Experiences Depending on your goals, you can strengthen your on-the-job proficiency or build new skills through instructor-led programs, online training, career or professional development coaching—and more. Professional Development Course Description Aspiring Manager (Employees should discuss eligibility with their manager) This three half-day program will help those interested in a management career investigate some of the key requirements and challenges of moving from individual contributor to manager. Participants must be nominated by their manager to be considered for the program. Communicating for Results Learn how to say what you mean and mean what you say by using a simple communication model. Explore the roles of effective communication. Leading with Influence Develop your skills to enlist, persuade, and engage others to achieve results. Learning in Motion: Speak, Listen, Be Understood Join us for a 90-minute workshop to build awareness around verbal and non-verbal cues, the sender/receiver model, and tips and techniques for successful communications. Mastering Difficult Conversations Learn to apply practical tools to effectively and confidently handle difficult conversations. Navigating Conflict Understand how people typically deal with conflict and learn how to steer potential conflict in a constructive direction. Participants will take the Thomas-Kilmann Conflict Mode Instrument. Project Management for Yale Professionals This course is intended for those either leading projects or interested in learning more about the project management discipline. Writing at Yale Level I: Mastering the Basics This two-part workshop is a writing-intensive class focused on mastering the basics of effective professional writing in the Yale context. It is designed for staff members seeking to improve their writing fundamentals, with an emphasis on correct grammar, punctuation, word choice, and structure. Writing at Yale Level II: Advanced Strategy and Practice This collaborative course is designed for those who are comfortable with the basics of grammar and style, and who are ready to take their writing to the next level in a supportive environment of fellow writers. Over the course of our two sessions together, we will review key strategies and best practices before delving into advanced work. Taking Pride in Your Job An essential element every employee must have in their tool-kit focuses on four simple principles: catching the energy, playing at work, making their day, and choosing your attitude. Workflow Management Explore how to create focus, organize information, and improve time management to encourage planful personal productivity. Career Development Course DESCRIPTION Best Foot Forward This fast-paced experiential workshop focuses on six core aspects of professionalism: attitude, appearance, attendance, initiative, integrity, and respect. Informational Interviewing: The Ultimate Networking Tool Learn what informational interviews are and how to prepare for them. Interviewing with Confidence Enhance your interviewing skills and develop your story with solid research and preparation. Job Crafting: Turning the Job You Have into the Job You Want Learn how to shape and redefine your job to make it more meaningful. Leveraging the Power of LinkedIn Build a LinkedIn profile that promotes you and your accomplishments and establish a network with other like-minded professionals. Navigating Your Career at Yale: Getting Started Discover what you need to know when searching for a new opportunity at Yale. Training Clerical & Technical Training and Development Financial Training Leadership and Management Development Professional and Career Development Timekeeping Resources and Tips Research Training Travel and Expenses Workday Training Materials Related Resources Learning Center Brochure Performance Management Individual Development Plan Maximizing Your Cover Letter Writing a Winning Resume Register for Courses Visit the Learn and Grow Calendar to register. Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications