Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Community > Public Safety > Statistics and Reporting Statistics and Reporting Annual Safety Report on Campus Crime and Fire Incidents As we do each year, consistent with federal law, Yale University is making available its annual report on campus security and fire safety (Clery Report). Each October we submit a report for the previous calendar year. Download the Clery Report, which contains three years’ worth of campus crime statistics and certain security policy statements, fire safety information, and where students, faculty, and staff should go to report crimes. The report uses federally mandated definitions concerning the locations and types of crimes in order to allow for comparisons across campuses. The Yale data, along with comparable information from other colleges and universities, are published, by the U.S. Department of Education and can be viewed on the Campus Safety and Security website. *The 2019 data will be updated to the U.S. Dept of Education site by approximately December 31, 2020. If you want to view Yale’s Campus Security and Fire Safety annual reports (the “Clery Report”) from previous years, please click on the following links. Clery Report 2020 Clery Report 2019 Clery Report 2018 It is also important to note that the Yale Police monitor and report incidents beyond those that are included in the federally mandated definitions in order to increase awareness and inform the Yale community about serious events. We hope you will read the report on campus security and fire safety and become familiar with the services and programs that are available to help keep the campus safe. Fire Log Maintenance and Requests Consistent with federal law, Yale maintains a fire log of any fire that occurs in on-campus student housing facilities. For a hard copy of the fire log, containing the most recent 60-day period, please contact Yale Facility Operations at 203-432-6888. They can provide hard copies of the fire log during normal business hours Monday through Friday. Daily Crime Log View Current Crime Logs Timely Warning and Public Safety Advisory Paintball Assault Elm and High Streets May 27, 2022 May 28, 2022 - 12:15am Anton Sovetov May 4, 2022 - 2:37pm Public Safety Advisory- Armed Robbery Henry and Canal Streets April 19, 2022 April 19, 2022 - 6:22pm Public Safety Police Community Policing Partnerships Security Clery Statistics and Reporting Stay Safe on Campus Resources Careers Contact Us Feedback FAQ News Systems and Services Videos Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications