Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale Staff Resources Information for New Employees Workplace Guidelines Staff Recognition Union-Management Relations Support Publications Working at Yale Learn about new employee orientation, official holidays, getting involved on campus, and more. Attend Orientation Before you start your new job Important actions to take Orientation directions and parking Your first day Explore your benefits Review Helpful Information Yale links, News, and Events Holidays and paid time off Login to Office 365 Email Understand your paycheck Get Involved on Campus Join an affinity group, volunteer for the United Way, become a Sustainability Leader, and explore other opportunities. Workplace Guidelines Review information that governs aspects of employment for Yale employees. Workplace Policies Review Staff Workplace Policies for Managerial, Professional, and Excluded Staff or access the Faculty Handbook, including policies and forms. Labor Agreements Access Labor Agreements for Local 34, Local 35, and more. Policies and Procedures Locate University Policies and Procedures impacting all employees. Staff Recognition Learn about the events, awards, and resources designed to recognize Yale’s talented and devoted employees. Events and Awards Staff Service Recognition Program Linda K. Lorimer Award Staff Appreciation Day National Arbor Day Service Recognition Gifts In recognition of their service, staff receive certificates for five-year milestones and gifts starting at ten-year milestones. Search the gift catalog to explore your choices. Ycards Make a colleague’s day by saying “Happy Birthday,” “Congrats,” “Thank You,” and more by sending a Ycard Manager Toolkit Navigate the tools and resources designed to support managers at recognize their staff. Union-Management Relations Learn about Yale’s commitment to reinforcing its collective bargaining agreements and strengthening cooperation between union and management in the workplace. Read the Labor Relations and Best Practices mission. Advice for Managers and Union Leaders Manager Support on Labor Agreements Support from Best Practices on Union-Management Cooperation Contact information Union-Management Relations Training Union-Management Relations training Moving Conflict to Resolution Managing at Yale Additional learning and enrichment opportunities Access Labor Agreements Labor Unions at Yale University Get Support Get support for your human resources, information technology, and financial processing needs. Employee Service Center For assistance with employee benefits, payroll, and personal information. ITS Help Desk For help with mobile and desktop devices, technical issues, and outages. Finance Support Center For questions about financial inquiries, transactions, and reporting. Publications Read news and updates for departments within Operations, or sign up to receive other Yale departmental e-newsletters. Business Update A weekly newsletter that includes news, key dates, and action items for the business community. The General Ledger The General Ledger is a monthly newsletter for Finance staff designed to share information about upcoming Finance activities, projects, staff stories, training opportunities, events, and more. IT Update A monthly newsletter that includes IT activities, project updates, and training courses for ITS staff and partners. Inside Facilities A monthly newsletter designed to share information about the people and projects of Yale Facilities, and more. Inside HR A monthly newsletter that includes information about events, projects, and training for HR professionals. The Menu Recognizing the people, places, and projects of Yale Hospitality. Read The Menu every month to stay informed about all things Hospitality and check out our photos and articles. Inside Public Safety A monthly newsletter designed to share information about upcoming Public Safety activities, events, training opportunities, and more. The Travel Update The Travel Update is a nine-month a year newsletter that includes news, tips and training for the business community and staff who manage travel bookings. Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications