Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Work at Yale > Careers > Internships Internships Internships are Career-building Experiences The internship experience is an investment towards your future. If you are looking for an opportunity to explore potential career paths that complement your interests and educational background, consider an internship at Yale. Why Intern at Yale? Most people know Yale as a renowned global teaching and research university with world-class libraries and museums and home to famous graduates, professors, and Nobel prize winners. This is all true. It’s also true that it takes many talented administrative and operational people –from IT, Human Resources, Finance, Business Operations and more–to support the teaching and research mission of the university. Yale is deeply committed to its New Haven Community Hiring Initiative and provides internship opportunities for eligible candidates. Once accepted into an internship program, you can expect to gain valuable real-world work experience at a world-class higher education institution. In addition to helping identify candidates for future hiring, a Yale internship: Builds your resume and work experience Develops your skills and competencies Provides opportunities to network Types of Internships Yale has internship experiences designed for career exploration at these levels: high school, college, and early career development. Contact Information For further information, email internships@yale.edu. Frequently asked questions Level Description Value High School Yale Information Technology Yale Information Technology (IT) Summer High School Internship is open to New Haven area public school residents. Yale School of Medicine Discovery to Cure High School Internship For additional programs and events for youth, browse the Office of New Haven and State Affairs listing of programs for campus-wide opportunities. Yale offers career engagement for high school students through mentoring, job shadowing, and real-work experiences that fosters future talent and supports the well-being of the local community. College New Haven Promise scholars need to contact New Haven Promise for internship opportunity details. Yale School of Management Organizational Behavior at Yale School of Management Yale Information Technology IT Summer College Internship Program Yale School of Medicine Child Study Center Internship Developmental Science Internship Discovery to Cure Undergraduate Internship Program Yale Infant Cognition Center Yale Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) Yale University Press Yale University Press Internship Yale offers college students the opportunity to experiment and pursue careers that match their academic and personal interest. The exposure to career paths at Yale develops well-trained and talented candidates for possible future employment. Early Career Development Yale Information Technology Rotational Career Development opportunities in Information Technology (IT) Yale School of Medicine Clinical and Translational Research Internship Program Open to recent and post-graduate students seeking further experience in their field of interest. Research, scholarship, education, preservation and practice opportunities develop leadership and technical skills for program participants and help young professionals get started in their careers at Yale. For Managers View the Internship Resources for Managers page for more info. 2019 Internships at Yale Previous ImageNext Image Careers Search Jobs at Yale New Haven Hiring Initiative Wage Ranges Student and Temporary Employee Salary Rates Find Your Recruiter Internships Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications