Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale Workplace Guidance Safety and Wellness Resources Employee Protocols Quick Guide Yale’s COVID-19 Website Workplace Announcements Workplace FAQs Safety and Wellness Resources Mask Requirements and Guidance Visit the EHS website, particularly for guidance on masks. Vaccinations and Boosters Get vaccinated and boosted, and confirm your status. Leadership Resources Review Manager responsibilities, reports, and info for HSLs, admins, and unit leaders. Travel Review the policy on university-sponsored and personal travel. Events and More Follow protocols for events, gatherings, and meetings. Visitors Review the Visitors Policy before inviting visitors to campus. IT Resources Utilize hybrid technology resources or contact the Helpdesk. Shuttle Follow Safe Riding Protocols on Campus Shuttles. Parking View information about vehicle parking. Wellness and WorkLife Access WorkLife, Personal Wellness, and Being Well resources. Employee Protocols Quick Guide Current protocols fully vaccinated* unvaccinated Reporting COVID-19 Infection from a Test Outside of the Yale Screening Program ✓ ✓ Testing Requirement ✓ Mask Requirements and Guidance optional, except in certain settings ✓ Physical Distancing Recommendations ✓ Staying Home if You Feel Sick Guidance ✓ ✓ Close Contact Quarantine ✓ Business Travel Restrictions ✓ Domestic Travel Restrictions ✓ International Travel Restrictions ✓ ✓ Events and Gatherings Limitations optional, with some criteria ✓ *Visit Yale Health’s General COVID-19 Vaccine Information page to understand what it means to be fully vaccinated. Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications