Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Research Support > Animal Research Support Animal Research Support Providing a safe and secure environment Impact of COVID-19 As the University's response to the spread of COVID-19 continues to evolve, assuring human health and safety is the top priority. As a follow-up to Provost Strobel's guidance for maintaining research continuity, I write to provide additional information below regarding Yale's animal research program. Business Continuity for the IACUC and the Office of Animal Research Support In addition to the Yale Animal Resources Center and Environmental Health & Safety, the IACUC and OARS will maintain critical functions: All submissions will continue to be accepted, but you may see a delay in reviews and approvals if staff are out sick or unable to come to work. All in-person visits from Research Liaisons will cease, but they will continue to assist in writing protocols and addressing reviewer comments remotely. Follow-up of incident reports will continue, but information gathering will be by email. Hazard start-up meetings and comparative reviews will continue as required, but will be conducted via Zoom. Laboratory audits will be postponed until normal operations commence. Rodent Basic Principles and other scheduled hands-on training will be postponed. Ad hoc training may be available if absolutely essential, but will be very limited. The IACUC will continue reviewing protocols and modifications and inspecting animal housing facilities. IACUC@yale.edu and regulatory.services@yale.edu will be monitored daily, so please use email to contact the office, as attending to phone calls will likely be interrupted. Animal Care Continuity for Laboratories If possible, animal research experiments should be ramped down, curtailed, or postponed. If experiments must continue, then please consider the following guidance: Limit or discontinue removing animals from YARC-managed facilities. YARC will continue daily animal care in YARC facilities. If you have IACUC-approval to keep animals in the laboratory, research staff will be responsible for caring for them. If laboratory staff are providing cross-coverage for each other, ensure staff have the appropriate training and access to critical areas. If access to additional housing areas is necessary, please contact iacuc@yale.edu. If access to additional laboratory spaces is necessary, please contact your business manager. If you have any questions or concerns, feel free to contact me directly (troy.hallman@yale.edu). Please continue to refer the University announcements about COVID-19 website for official information and guidance. Regulatory Information Yale’s Assurance Number: D16-00146 Approval Period: May 1, 2019-May 31, 2023 Yale animal researchers may review the Assurance by contacting the Office of Animal Research Support (OARS) at 203-785-5992. Yale’s USDA License and Registration Number:16-R-0001 Registered until March 20, 2023 AAALAC Accreditation: April 3, 2019 News & Updates Current Newsletter The Beacon Volume 7, Issue 2 Past Newsletters The Beacon Volume 7, Issue 1 The Beacon Volume 6, Issue 4 The Beacon Volume 6, Issue 3 The Beacon Volume 6, Issue 2 The Beacon Volume 6, Issue 1 The Beacon Volume 5, Issue 5 The Beacon Volume 5, Issue 4 The Beacon Volume 5, Issue 3 The Beacon Volume 5, Issue 2 The Beacon Volume 5, Issue 1 The Beacon Volume 4, Issue 2 The Beacon Volume 4, Issue 1 The Beacon Volume 3, Issue 4 The Beacon Volume 3, Issue 3 The Beacon Volume 3, Issue 2 The Beacon Volume 3, Issue 1 The Beacon Volume 2, Issue 1 The Beacon Volume 1, Issue 3 The Beacon Volume 1, Issue 2 The Beacon Volume 1, Issue 1 Semi-annual Inspections Semi-annual Inspection Possible Findings Animal Research Support Submit for IACUC Review Policies, Procedures, Guidelines and Instructions Training Resources and Regulatory Information Who to Contact Reporting Animal Care and Use Concerns Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications