Jump to content It's Your Yale Search Toggle the Menu Ycards Workday News Directories Media Login Search Work at Yale Workplace Guidance Benefits Careers Campus Services Financial Management Learn and Grow Manager Toolkit Staff Resources Support Technology at Yale Policies & Procedures University Policies, Procedures, Forms, and Guides Research Support Office of Research Administration Office of Sponsored Projects Human Research Protection Program Animal Research Support Conflict of Interest Office Export Controls Office of Research Compliance Faculty Research Management Services Community Diversity and Inclusion Public Safety Search It's Your Yale You are hereHome > Work at Yale > Staff Resources > Publications > Inside Public Safety > Public Safety News Public Safety News Yale Police coordinate multiple community outreach events during April and May May 31, 2022 Members of the Yale Police Department (YPD) were busy coordinating several community events throughout April and May. These included another bicycle presentation, two grocery giveaways, and several Yale childcare socials—Earth Day drawings and spring flower planting. In coordination with... Yale Public Safety offers Autism training and awareness May 31, 2022 April is Autism Acceptance Month. To bring more education and awareness to its officers and staff, the Yale Police Department (YPD) hosted several Autism talks and a panel discussion. Each week members of the YPD heard from experts in the field, including several Yale physicians and professors... Chief Higgins presents at U.S. Air Force base May 31, 2022 As part of National Police Week, Chief Higgins gave a presentation entitled “Developing Full-Range Leadership” during the Flight Commander’s Edge Course at the Westover Air Force Reserve Base in Chicopee, Massachusetts. He spoke to 25 Company Grade Officers and enlisted members from both the Air... The Yale Police Department welcomes new officer Gregg Curran March 31, 2022 The Yale Police Department (YPD) recently added three new officers to their force: Gregg Curran, Angelo DeLieto, and Karl Rodriguez-Perez. All three are experienced officers who came to Yale from other area police departments. Please join us in welcoming them to Yale. We met with... The Yale Police Department welcomes New Officer Angelo DeLieto March 31, 2022 The Yale Police Department (YPD) recently added three new officers to their force: Gregg Curran, Angelo DeLieto, and Karl Rodriguez-Perez. All three are experienced officers who came to Yale from other police departments in the area. Please join us in welcoming them to Yale. We talked... March community outreach events March 31, 2022 The Yale Police Department (YPD) teamed up with the Yale African American Affinity (YAAA) Group to purchase and present a brand-new bicycle and helmet to a student at East Rock Community Magnet School in New Haven. Members of the YPD and YAAA attended the school’s monthly assembly and... Yale Police Officers help distribute 1,000 free meals March 31, 2022 Last month, Yale Police Sergeant Martha Cedeno-Ross and Officer Myisha Giddings helped distribute 1,000 meals to people in need. As part of Black History Month, the City of New Haven’s Youth and Recreation Department held its second annual dinner distribution. Families were able to stop by... The Yale Police Department welcomes new officer Karl Rodriguez-Perez March 31, 2022 The Yale Police Department (YPD) recently added three new officers to their force: Gregg Curran, Angelo DeLieto, and Karl Rodriguez-Perez. All three are experienced officers who come to us from other area police departments. Please join us in welcoming them to Yale. We caught up with... Yale Police Officers help with grocery giveaway February 28, 2022 On a recent chilly Saturday morning, two Yale Police Officers assisted the Community Baptist Church with their grocery giveaway. Located on Shelton Avenue in New Haven, the church collects non-perishable food items and more from local food banks and monthly provides groceries to families in need... Yale Police contribute to Lunarfest February 28, 2022 Lunarfest, organized by Yale-China, took place throughout February and celebrates the Chinese New Year. Local artist Kaitlin Tan Fung created a large mural of 42 colorful squares celebrating the Year of the Tiger. Each square was decorated by members of the Greater New Haven community. ... Yale Public Safety - Recent community events and drives January 31, 2022 Over the holidays and into January, Yale Public Safety teamed up with several Yale groups and New Haven churches to help those in need. Efforts included several successful food and coat drives. Here is a snapshot of those local happenings. Yale Police Department (YPD) members worked with... What to do right away if you're a victim of identity theft January 31, 2022 If you are the victim of identity theft, follow these steps immediately. Step 1: Call the companies where you know the fraud occurred: Call the fraud department. Explain that someone stole your identity. Ask them to close or freeze the accounts. Then, no one can add new charges unless you... Yale Police Patrol Unit – Doing good works January 31, 2022 Last fall, the Yale Police Department (YPD) received a call about a homeless man sleeping under a dormitory room window outside of Jonathan Edwards College (JE). After evaluating the situation, the officers realized the man had mental health issues. They decided not to detain this individual but... Yale Security CALEA accreditation in the home stretch January 28, 2022 Yale Security started working towards its first CALEA (Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies) accreditation almost two years ago. Attaining this accreditation shows objective evidence of an organization’s commitment... Yale Security - Community feedback encouraged during assessment project December 8, 2021 Dear Yale students, staff, and faculty, On Monday, December 13, 2021, a team of assessors from the Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies, Inc. (CALEA) will virtually exam all aspects of the Yale University Security Department. This assessment is part of the... First Annual Stuff-A-Cruiser feeds the hungry November 30, 2021 Just before Thanksgiving, the Downtown Evening Soup Kitchen got a visit from the Yale Police Dept. Yale Police Officer Gregory Swiantek stopped by with a police vehicle stuffed to the brim with hundreds of cans and boxes of non-perishable food. All this bounty was the result of the successful... Honoring members of Yale Public Safety who have served in the U.S. Armed Forces November 30, 2021 On behalf of Chief Ronnell Higgins and the entire Yale Public Safety community, we salute and thank department veterans who are currently serving, have served, or are allies of those in the US Armed Forces. We also salute and thank all their family members who are also serving or have served.... Other Community Events and Drives – Food, clothing, toys, and more November 30, 2021 Yale Public Safety teamed with many groups throughout the fall on several different community events; here is a wrap-up of those happenings. Donations benefiting Afghan families Yale Public safety partnered with Yale’s Affinity Groups, Yale Library Staff Association, and more for a... Community policing - Pizza, patience, and understanding November 30, 2021 Yale Public Safety prides itself on improving communication and outreach with the Yale and New Haven communities. As a result, many programs are in place by design, while some encounters happen organically. In June, there were reports of adolescents riding bicycles around New Haven,... Chief Ronnell Higgins honored by Connecticut Chapter of the NAACP October 29, 2021 Ronnell Higgins, Director of Public Safety and Chief of Yale Police, leads by example, and his values and a deep sense of ethics are seen in everything he does. Recently, he was honored by the Connecticut Chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), as one... Heidi and Officer Simons honored at New York Giants Game October 29, 2021 Yale Police Service dog Heidi and her handler Officer Richard Simons were honored at Sunday’s New York Giants (NY Giants) game . A graduate of Puppies Behind Bars (PBB... Donations needed for annual Turkey Drive October 29, 2021 The Yale Police Department, along with the City of New Haven’s Youth and Recreation Department (YARD) and other local community partners, are hoping to feed many this Thanksgiving holiday. Last year over 700 turkeys and trimmings were distributed to almost 2,400 people in the local... Yale Public Safety supports Breast Cancer Awareness events October 29, 2021 October is Breast Cancer Awareness month, and members of Yale Public Safety are supporting several events. This includes a local race, an awareness giveaway, and donning pink patches. The... Third Annual Cops and Ballers tournament a success October 29, 2021 The Cops and Ballers tournament is an annual afternoon-long series of three-on-three basketball games. These games feature city police officers playing side-by-side with some of New Haven’s most talented young athletes. The tournament began three years ago as a way to bridge the gap... PAL Camp 2021 — Fun for all September 20, 2021 Each summer, several Yale Police Officers participate in the Police Activities League (PAL) Kids Camp. During July, the day camp provides local children ages 8 to 11 with educational, athletic, and just plain fun programs. Officers Elizabeth “Liz” Vaccino and Michael Claxton were assigned to... Captain Von Narcisse publishes his first children’s book September 20, 2021 Yale Police Captain Von Narcisse is now a published author. What started back in 2012 as a story told to his family during Hurricane Sandy is now a children’s book. The Forgotten Prophecy is... Backpack and school supply drive a success September 17, 2021 The Yale Police Department (YPD) helped sponsor a recent backpack and school supply drive. During the outdoor event organized by the volunteer group Women of the Village, over 100 stuffed backpacks were given to local children. Families were able to enjoy some ice cream, and the kids got their... Cultural competence training conducted for all Yale security officers August 19, 2021 Cultural competence training was recently held as part of an overall goal to improve interactions between Yale Public Safety officers and the community. Over six days, all Yale security officers attended a four-hour workshop entitled “Cultural Competence and Empathy” lead by Lorenzo Boyd, Ph.D.... Summer community events August 2, 2021 It has been a busy summer packed with community events hosted or attended by Yale Public Safety. One such event included the Police Activities League (PAL) Camp Fun Day that featured inflatables, ice cream, and face painting. The PAL program provides educational and athletic programs for... Thank you program continues to bring smiles August 2, 2021 A small program initially started to thank Yale Hospitality staff has grown. This past month Yale custodians were the most recent recipients of an in-person surprise thank you visit from members of the Yale Police Department (YPD) that included gifts of chocolate! In late spring, YPD Officer... Pages 1 2 next › last » Additional News Visit the Statistics and Reporting page to view our daily crime log and timely warnings. Helpful Links Parking and Transportation Options Our Offices Public Safety Support Required Information Accessibility at Yale Federal and State Notice Requirements Nondiscrimination/Title IX Privacy Policy Yale Shuttle Yale Copyright © 2022 Yale University All Rights Reserved Contact Internal Communications