Skip to content Menu Home Policy and Reporting Camp Directors Parents Students Contact Us Youth Protection Program The University of Texas at Austin is committed to ensuring a safe and supportive environment exists for all staff, students, and visitors to the campus. Each year, the university offers many coordinated opportunities for minors to visit our campus. The programs introduce minors to the traditions of the university while providing them with a robust collegiate experience. More importantly, these programs are essential to our mission at the university, because these programs introduce minors to our campus and community. The university recognizes both its institutional and legal obligations to ensure the safety and well-being of minors while they are participating in sponsored university programs. To provide a safe environment and life-changing experience, The University of Texas at Austin has created requirements that not only meet the legal expectations but also reflect the institution’s core values of Learning, Discovery, Freedom, Leadership, Individual Opportunity, and Responsibility. The Youth Protection Program (YPP) was established in 2015 to create a safe environment for minors participating in sponsored university programs. Under the supervision of LeeKeshia Williams, the YPP will provide educational training opportunities and best practices to ensure the safety of future Longhorns. As the Youth Protection Program Director, LeeKeshia will work with faculty and staff to ensure that all camps and programs comply with HOP 3-1710 Youth Protection Program Policy. In 2019, the YPP was accredited by the American Camps Association. This designation is a declaration of the University’s commitment to providing children with high-quality programs and ensuring their safety and well-being while participating in programs at the University. If you have questions about hosting a program involving minors, please contact the Youth Protection Program Director, LeeKeshia Williams at Please enable JavaScript to see this field. or 512-471-0594. Policy and Reporting Camp Directors Parents Students Contact Us Contact Us LeeKeshia Williams Youth Protection Program Director Phone: 512-471-0594 Email: ypp@utexas.edu Carley Gardiner Youth Protection Program Coordinator Phone: 512-232-4660 Email: ypp@utexas.edu Menu Policy and Reporting Camp Directors Parents Students Contact Us Web Policies Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Visit Us Student Services Building (SSB), Suite 3.200 100 W. Dean Keeton Austin, TX 78712 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy