Skip to Main Content About Us Admissions Education & Training Research & Practice Faculty Alumni myYSPH DownloadHi-Res Photo Elizabeth Claus, PhD, MD Professor of Biostatistics; Director of Medical Research, School of Public Health Contact Information Elizabeth Claus, PhD, MD Office 203.785.6415 Fax 203.785.6912 Appt 617.732.7373 Clinic Fax 617.713.3050 Email elizabeth.claus@yale.edu Office Location 60 College Street Ste 205 New Haven, CT 06510 Mailing Address Biostatistics PO Box 208034, 60 College Street New Haven, CT 06520-8034 United States Related Links The International Low Grade Glioma Registry Environmental and Sex- Specific Molecular Signatures of Glioma Causation The Role of Genetic Information in Understanding and Treating Low-Grade Glioma. Understanding the Diagnosis and Treatment of Acoustic Neuroma Biography Research & Publications Patient Care News Locations DownloadHi-Res Photo Appointments Biostatistics Biography Elizabeth B. Claus, MD, PhD is Professor and Director of Medical Research in the Yale University School of Public Health as well as Attending Neurosurgeon and Director of Stereotactic Radiosurgery within the Department of Neurosurgery at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston. She is a member of the board of advisors for the Acoustic Neuroma Association (ANA) as well as the Central Brain Tumor Registry of the United States (CBTRUS). Dr. Claus' work is focused in cancer and genetic epidemiology with an emphasis on the development of risk models for breast and brain tumors. She is the overall PI of the Meningioma Consortium, the Meningioma Genome-Wide Association Study, and the Yale Acoustic Neuroma Study as well as a co-investigator of the GLIOGENE (Genes for Glioma) and International Glioma Case/Control (GICC) projects. In addition to her research activities, Dr. Claus is a Board-certified neurosurgeon who completed her residency in neurosurgery at Yale-New Haven Hospital and her fellowship in neurosurgical oncology at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. Her clinical focus is on the treatment of meningioma, glioma, acoustic neuroma and brain metastases. Claus launched the International Low-Grade Glioma (LGG) Registry in 2016 to discover why some people develop LGG, a slow growing but malignant brain tumor primarily affecting young adults, while others do not. The goal of the registry is also to learn more about the effect of this diagnosis and the associated treatments on daily life including the ability to work, drive, sleep, exercise, or take care of oneself and/or a family member. Recently Dr. Claus and a team of fellow scientists received funds from the National Cancer Institute to investigate the molecular evolution of LGG. The project, OPTimIzing engageMent in discovery of molecular evolution of low grade glioma” or OPTIMUM, will enroll 500 participants diagnosed with LGG and who have had two or more surgeries for their glioma and genotype these tumors to establish a comprehensive genomic characterization of the glioma tumors across time. Education & Training Fellow Brigham and Women's Hospital (2003) Resident Yale-New Haven Hospital (2002) Resident Yale- New Haven Hospital (1996) MD Yale University School of Medicine (1994) PhD Yale University (1988) Activities Glioma Research Consortium Denmark; United Kingdom; Israel; Sweden; United States 2008 Professor Claus is a co-investigator for GLIOGENE, an international, multidisciplinary consortium of glioma researchers. The goal of this consortium is to identify susceptibility genes in high-risk familial brain tumor pedigrees by screening glioma patients within the United States, Europe, and Israel. The hypothesis is that there are specific discoverable genotypes that increase the risk of developing brain tumors. Professor Claus also conducts work with this group to refine treatment algorithms for patients diagnosed with low-grade gliomas. Clinical Neurosurgery Boston, United States 2002 Dr. Claus practices neurosurgery at Brigham and Women's Hospital Honors & Recognition Award Awarding Organization Date Population Science Research Prize Yale Cancer Center 2022 Top 100 Publications, Yale Centennial School of Public Health, Yale University 2015 Professional Service Organization Role Date Acoustic Neuroma Association To advise the ANA on a variety of topics related to the occurrence and treatment of acoustic neuroma 2010 - 2015 National Institutes of Health Provide advice to NIH relative to the Cancer Post-GWAS Initiative 2010 - Present Departments & Organizations Biostatistics Cancer Prevention and Control Obesity Research Working Group Office of Cooperative Research Yale Cancer Center Yale Center for Genomic Health Yale School of Public Health Edit Profile 14 Events you could attend in June 2022 YSPH Calendar Innovating Through Collaboration Reserve a Room P.O. Box 208034 60 College Street New Haven, CT 06520-0834 Maps & Directions Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook Library & Reference © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 07/15/2019 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [0,1,13,3,102,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-profile-components-profile-details-ProfileDetails","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [0,2,16,4,104,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-profile-components-profile-details-ProfileDetails","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}