Skip to Main Content Climate Change and Health Certificate Climate Change and Health Certificate Yale School of Public HealthClimate Change and Health Online Certificate Program Details Why Attend Admissions Contact An 18-week Online Certificate Giving You Tools to Address the Health Impacts of Climate Change Applications for the program are now closed. The next offering will begin in Spring 2023. Join our mailing list to be among the first to know when applications open. This 18-week, online program for public health professionals and other learners is designed to equip you with the knowledge and proven strategies needed to increase your community’s resilience to the adverse health impacts of climate change and to communicate effectively about health effects of climate change to the public and policymakers. The Yale School of Public Health is pleased to offer the first online certificate on climate change and health from a US school of public health. Led by the Yale Center on Climate Change and Health, the certificate leverages advanced education tools and outstanding faculty to provide students with an unparalleled opportunity to learn and create change. Flexible Learning + Immediate Impact The three courses in the certificate equip you to address the mounting threat of climate change by enabling you to plan strategies to increase your community's resilience to the adverse health consequences of climate change and motivate positive changes in climate-related behaviors. Diverse Cohort + Engaging Professional Network The certificate is designed for working professionals from all sectors who are eager to combat the adverse effects of climate change on the health of their communities, including those working in: public health, medicine, healthcare, environmental protection, industry, academia, government, advocacy and non-profit organizations. Progressing through the program as a cohort, you will enjoy peer-to-peer learning while engaging frequently with expert faculty. You will complete the certificate with a new-found professional network to help you lead the way in addressing the adverse impacts of climate change on health. Want to learn more? Take a look at our student experience video to hear what program alumni have to say and to get a preview of the program. Program Details Apply YSPH Calendar PO Box 208034 New Haven, CT 06520-8034 Maps & Directions Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook Library & Reference © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 01/21/2021 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [11,28,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","features-cta-block-components-CtaBlock","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [7,14,30,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","features-cta-block-components-CtaBlock","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}