Skip to Main Content Admissions and Financial Aid Admissions and Financial Aid Yale School of Public HealthYSPH Admissions & Financial Aid Apply & Visit Student Life & Academic Support Applied Practice & Research Opportunities Education & Training Careers in Public Health Tuition & Financial Aid Student Activities Board members and department representatives of the 2021-22 Student Association for the Yale School of Public Health (SAYPH) at the October 15 board meeting. Bottom row, left to right: Phoenix Sun, Alumni Engagement (Environmental Health Sciences), Maddie Sale (Health Policy rep), Liora Fiksel (Environmental Health Sciences rep), Jacob Chen, President (Health Policy), Maame-Owusua Boateng (Social and Behavioral Sciences rep), Jessica Robles (Social and Behavioral Sciences rep). Top row, left to right: Abigail Girgis (PhD rep), Rosa Gonzalez Juarez (Social and Behavioral Sciences rep), Avery Naperala (Environmental Health Sciences rep), Ruiyan Wang, Community Engagement Chair (Chronic Disease Epidemiology), MC Meadows, Professional Development Chair (Chronic Disease Epidemiology), Vicki Clarke, Vice President (Health Care Management), Tom Shao, Social Chair (Environmental Health Sciences), Chinenye Okafor, Treasurer (Chronic Disease Epidemiology), Patrick Disman (Health Policy rep), Ji Yoon Lee (MS rep), Harry Huang (Biostatics rep). Not pictured: Alyssa Kim, Professional Development Chair (Social and Behavioral Sciences) and Meghan Lindsay, Communications Chair (Chronic Disease Epidemiology). Extracurricular activities are an important part of student life at the Yale School of Public Health. Many students enhance their academic studies with applied public health experiences in the community through groups such as the HAVEN clinic, PAWS or the Student Consulting Club. Affinity groups, intramural sports, and professional organizations also provide opportunities to come together to share in the Yale experience and expand your social and professional network across the University. YSPH Student-run Organizations Student Association of Yale School of Public Health (SAYPH) SAYPH is organized by YSPH students for YSPH students. SAYPH works to enhance the experience of each student at YSPH by sponsoring educational and social activities, providing a forum for students’ ideas and concerns, and acting as a liaison between students and the administration. Through SAYPH, students get involved in many areas including the following: Student clubs and organizations Professional development and alumni relations Community service and social events at YSPH and in the greater community Health and wellness promotion Recruitment of new students to YSPH New student orientation and commencement activities SAYPH is led by an Executive Board consisting of a president, professional development chair, treasurer, alumni engagement chair, social chair, community service chair and communications chair. There are also MPH departmental student representatives, PhD representatives and MS representatives. Each department elects students to act as a liaison between students, faculty and administration. All SAYPH positions are filled through a school-wide nomination process that takes place annually. 2022-2023 SAYPH Board: President: Maame-Owusua Boateng Vice President: Neal Patel Communications Chair: Lauren Chin Treasurer: Francine Erfe Professional Development Chair: Yazhini Ramesh Community Service Chair: Kimberly Bako Social Co-Chairs: Christina Tong and Jessica Robles Addiction Medicine Collaborative (AMC) The AMC is an interdisciplinary student organization among the Yale health professional schools that seeks to collaboratively enhance professional and public education concerning substance use; to promote and foster the interests of students, health professionals, and advocates for substance use assistance and recovery; and to encourage scholarly inquiry concerning substance use disorders as they impact health care professionals and the public that we seek to serve. Contact: Victoria Clarke Haley Allcroft American College Of Healthcare Executives (ACHE) The American College of Healthcare Executives (ACHE) is an international professional society of 40,000 healthcare executives who lead hospitals, healthcare systems and other healthcare organizations. ACHE's mission is to advance our members and healthcare management excellence. Yale ACHE intends to offer networking, education, and career development to students aspiring to pursue healthcare management roles at Yale SPH, SOM, Nursing, Medical School, and PA School. Contact: Kevin Soun Tyler Miao American Public Health Association (APHA) – Yale Chapter Yale-APHA is the Yale chapter of the American Public Health Association, the oldest, largest, and most diverse organization for public health professionals across the world. The mission of Yale-APHA is to: 1) Foster professional and academic development of Yale School of Public Health students, 2) Develop relationships with undergraduate and graduate students with interests in public health and other allied-health professions, and 3) Propagate the mission and goals of the American Public Health Association. Contact: Saron Araya Vicki Clarke Connecticut Hospice Advisory Board To create a lasting, positive relationship between Yale University and The Connecticut Hospice through a diverse team of graduate student consultants. The Connecticut Hospice Advisory Board will consist of interested students from all health care or management-related graduate programs and will attend to the various strategic planning and administrative needs of The Connecticut Hospice. The Connecticut Hospice will benefit from strategic recommendations and board institutional memory while students will benefit from meaningful project-based work. Contact: Scarlett Ma Stephanie Tu Emerging Majority Students Association The Emerging Majority Students Association (EMSA) is committed to creating and fostering a sense of community among minority/underrepresented students and students interested in the promotion of diversity and inclusion at YSPH. Our three-fold mission is to: serve as a platform for voicing the concerns and interests of minority students at YSPH, promote a multicultural, professional, and academic environment that enables us to address the health issues of minorities in the field of public health with an emphasis on the New Haven community, and collaborate with admissions toward raising the level of underrepresented minority/underrepresented student recruitment, admission, and retention at YSPH. Officer Positions: Nandini Deo Beatriz Duran-Becerra Christian Abraham Arega Global Alliance for Public Health The Global Alliance for Public Health strives to create a space for the academic and professional development of international students at the Yale School of Public Health and truly bring diverse and global voices to the public health field. Contact: Cenjing Zhu Graduate and Professional Student Senate The Yale Graduate and Professional Student Senate (GPSS) is made up of representatives from each of the graduate and professional schools. GPSS is the overarching student government meant to be a liaison between all the graduate and professional schools and Yale University. The mission of GPSS is to foster interaction among students through community service, social gatherings, academic and professional events, as well as to enable official and unofficial student groups. The Senate also represents the graduate and professional student population on official university committees and oversees the management and maintenance of GPSCY and Gryphon's Pub. Contact: gpss@yale.edu Haven Free Clinic The HAVEN Free Clinic is a student-run primary care clinic partnered with Fair Haven Community Health Center (FHCHC) and Yale University. Our model is unique in its interdisciplinary focus and inclusion of students from across the disciplines of medicine, nursing, physician assistants, and public health. Student volunteers are crucial to the operations of HAVEN and serve as interpreters, clinical care providers, health and nutrition educators, reproductive health counselors, researchers, and a variety of other functions. Medical visits are conducted by teams of senior and junior clinical students with guidance from faculty attendings. Since opening our doors in November 2005, we have conducted over 4000 adult patient visits. Last year alone we saw over 400 unique patients with over 300 student volunteers. Currently, we see an average of 40 patients per week. HAVEN operates Saturdays from 9a-12p out of the Fair Haven Community Health Center. Our programs are targeted to residents of the Fair Haven neighborhood. Our Vision: Every uninsured adult living in Fair Haven will have access to comprehensive quality healthcare. Students will develop a lifelong commitment to valuing social context and community needs in their future work with patients and communities. Health and Environment at Yale (HEY) Health and Environment at Yale (HEY) is an interdisciplinary student group, linking students, staff, and faculty from across Yale, including the School of Public Health and the School of Forestry and Environmental Sciences. The members of HEY have a shared interest in bridging environment and human health and seek to forge connections with future colleagues from all disciplines. Throughout the year HEY holds social networking events, seminars with host speakers, journal clubs, career talks and movie screenings. Topics discussed include (but is not limited to): food security, vector-borne diseases and climate change, green spaces and mental health. HealthCORE HealthCORE is a student-run non-profit at the Yale School of Public Health that exists to create and maintain sustainable partnerships locally and globally. Current goals: Empower underserved communities through public health practice Commit to learning about effective and sustainable practices, keeping local communities at the forefront of all initiatives Allow students opportunities to lead and gain hands-on experience in non-profit global health work Leverage established relationships between key faculty and respective communities Expand both current domestic and global projects Contact: Eesha Dave Kevin Soun Caroline Magee Lauren Cueto Implementation Science Group at Yale (ISG) The ISG aims to help students with interest in Public Health and healthcare services to gain a foundation in Implementation Science by exposing them to high quality implementation science research, training, programming/practice, and resources. At ISG, we aim to bridge the gap between knowledge and practice in public health and healthcare. Our goals are to: Attract student interest to Implementation Science Provide students opportunities to network in Implementation Science Help students identify careers in Implementation Science Contact: Haley Allcroft Neighborhood Health Project The Neighborhood Health Project provides an educational opportunity for Yale health professions students to offer basic health screenings to low-income residents of New Haven, CT. Our services, which are located at a neighborhood food pantry, include patient interviews, blood pressure and blood glucose checks, BMI assessments and healthcare referrals. Out in Public Out in Public seeks to promote diversity and awareness at Yale School of Public Health by providing a platform for students to advocate for the needs and concerns of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) community members at YSPH and beyond, by creating a personal and professional network for the LGBTQ community, and by organizing social and academic events aimed at fostering a sense of community at YSPH. Contact: Sreeja Kondeti Elaine Louden Plant-Based for Public Health (PB4PH) Plant-Based for Public Health (PB4PH) at YSPH is dedicated to recognizing, amplifying, and celebrating the connection between nutrition, individual wellbeing, population health, animal welfare, and environmental health. PB4PH embraces the One Health perspective. We exist to empower individuals through education, community advocacy, and wholehearted inclusion to wield the power of accessible dietary and lifestyle choices for the promotion and progression of public health. We advocate for a healthier, more equitable, sustainable, and compassionate food system, and recognize that public health depends on the wellbeing of humans, animals, and the planet. Contact: Natalie Henning Guinevere Oliver Caroline Magee REPROJustice REPROJustice at YSPH is dedicated to the achievement and protection of the rights of all people to the full realization and enjoyment of their sexual and reproductive health. This we embrace as part of a holistic definition of reproductive justice that works to ensure the complete physical, mental, spiritual, political, social, and economic well-being of all people. We work in pursuit of sexual and reproductive liberty, gender equity, and social justice through community engagement, education, and advocacy and dedicate ourselves to the creation of a healthier, safer, and more just world. Contact: Emily Borland Esther Kang Megan Malloy Kendall Watanabe Student Consulting Group The Yale School of Public Health Student Consulting Group provides pro-bono consulting and public health practices to organizations in the Greater New Haven area and beyond, while also creating opportunities for graduate students to advance their education, knowledge, and experience. Contact: Laura Makin Christian Abraham Arega Kalla Sy Student Recreation Programs The Yale Intramural program provides an outlet for athletic competition for the Yale community. All currently enrolled undergraduate students of Yale College and Yale Graduate & Professional Students are eligible for Intramural Sports (subject to some restrictions). The William Clay Ford Club Sports Program Clubs are open to all Yale undergraduate and graduate students (with a required ratio of 3:1 or greater); a few also accept staff, faculty, and alumni as "assistants." And most clubs are coed. Students for Sustainable Waste Reduction at YSPH (SWAY) Students for Sustainable Waste Reduction at YSPH (SWAY) is a student-led organization dedicated to encouraging a cultural shift towards environmental stewardship in the YSPH community. We work on minimizing the use of disposable items at catered events along with creating a model of sustainable consumption and minimalist disposal patterns to be implemented across the university. Contact: Natalie Henning Womxn of Color for Maternal & Child Health Womxn of Color for Maternal & Child Health is a group led by womxn of color passionate about health justice for pregnant people, infants, children, and young people of color. Our mission is to: Facilitate interdisciplinary dialogue about health equity from a racial justice perspective, Elevate health narratives and health knowledge of people of color, Advocate for health policies and solutions alongside communities of color driven by their needs, Promote the integration of evidence-informed practices* and holistic healing practices, Provide training on combating racism as a root cause of health inequities, and Promote equitable engagement between the Yale community, New Haven community and beyond. *Evidence gathered from both academic and non-academic sources, including peer reviewed articles and laypersons’ experiences Executive Board members: Simi Falako Rishika Mohanty Yale Biostatistics Student Association (YBSA) Founded in 2013, Yale Biostatistics Student Association (YBSA) is a student-run nonprofit organization committed to providing biostatistics education and knowledge to Yale communities. YBSA is also the official student chapter of the American Statistical Association at Yale University. YBSA aims to connect everyone who is passionate about biostatistics and help each member further explore their academic and career opportunities in biostatistics. Contact: Xumin Li Chai Kim Ziyi Kang Jiawen Chen Yale Healthcare Conference The Yale Healthcare Conference is a joint effort between YSPH, School of Management and the other Health Professional Schools at Yale. It’s a day-long event with more than 40 industry speakers, and brings together more than 450 professionals, academics, and students for one exciting day of dialogue about major issues in the healthcare industry. This is an entirely student-run conference, and opportunities for involvement and leadership roles include committee chair and volunteer positions in the following areas: recruitment and coordination of speakers, fundraising, logistics, marketing, and budget. Yale Journal of Health Policy, Law, and Ethics The Yale Journal of Health Policy, Law, and Ethics is a biannual publication of the Yale Schools of Law, Medicine, Epidemiology and Public Health, and Nursing. The Journal strives to provide a forum for interdisciplinary discussion on topics in health policy, health law, and biomedical ethics. It targets a broad and diverse readership of academicians, professionals, and students in medicine, law, and public health, as well as policy makers and legislators in health care. Student Life & Academic Support Meet Students and Alumni 2021 Internship Spotlights 2019 Internship Spotlights 2018 Internship Spotlights YSPH in Video Student Activities MS and PHD Student Life Libraries at Yale YSPH Calendar Innovating Through Collaboration Reserve a Room PO Box 208034 New Haven, CT 06520-8034 47 College Street New Haven, CT 06510 Maps & Directions Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook Library & Reference © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 12/09/2021 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [11,32,56,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","features-faq-components-Faq","features-navigation-components-sidebar-navigation-SidebarNavigation","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [7,14,34,58,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","features-faq-components-Faq","features-navigation-components-sidebar-navigation-SidebarNavigation","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}