Skip to Main Content Center for Perinatal, Pediatric and Environmental Epidemiology Center for Perinatal, Pediatric and Environmental Epidemiology Yale School of Public HealthCenter for Perinatal, Pediatric and Environmental Epidemiology (CPPEE) History Projects Personnel Publications News Contact Us Welcome to The Yale Center for Perinatal, Pediatric and Environmental Epidemiology (Yale CPPEE) Mission Statement: The mission of the Center is to promote the health of women and children through epidemiologic research investigating the impact of environmental, genetic and clinical factors on pregnancy, birth and childhood. The Center's History The Yale Perinatal Epidemiology Unit (PEU) was founded in 1979 by then Dean of the Yale School of Medicine, Robert Berliner, to support research in this area being conducted by the departments of Epidemiology and Public Health, Obstetrics and Gynecology, and Pediatrics (especially Neonatology). The founding Director was Professor Michael B. Bracken. The mission of the PEU was stated in the preface to the 1984 textbook Perinatal Epidemiology (MB Bracken Ed., Oxford University Press) which first described this area of scholarship: “It has long been recognized that events during pregnancy influence the health and well-being of the newborn. This recognition, and the obvious need to provide integrated care to both mother and baby, has led to the establishment of perinatology as the medical specialty that bridges the gap between the obstetrician’s concern for the pregnant woman and the care of her newborn by a pediatrician. Only recently have we begun to understand that events occurring long before pregnancy, sometimes inter-generationally, can affect our reproductive capabilities. We also now know that vicissitudes in our own uterine existence may profoundly influence the rest of our lives both physically and behaviorally. Population based studies of these phenomena fall within the domain of perinatal epidemiology, which has evolved into a major subspecialty of epidemiology and an important component of perinatal medicine.” Contact Us Related Links Yale School of Public Health Yale School of Medicine Library Cochrane Library Cochrane Collaboration Yale HIPAA Other Related Links US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology (AAAAI) NICHD Cochrane Neonatal Home Page YSPH Calendar Yale Center for Perinatal, Pediatric and Environmental Epidemiology One Church Street, 6th Floor New Haven, CT 06510 Maps & Directions Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook Library & Reference © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 12/10/2021 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [11,4,77,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","modules-banners-components-Banner","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [7,14,5,79,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","modules-banners-components-Banner","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}