Skip to Main Content Education & Training Education & Training Yale School of Public Health Graduate Programs Post-doctoral Training Continuing Education Social Innovation Special Programs The foundation of my career started at Yale where I learned the art of thinking globally and acting locally, where knowledge and wisdom of the faculty provided the lens to see commonality and yet appreciate the differences in approach to delivering public health services. Dechen Wangmo, MPH '07 Minister of Health, Bhutan The YSPH Education — Preparing you to answer the big questions The Yale School of Public Health offers cutting edge educational opportunities for today's students who want to take on the exciting challenges of public health. We offer MPH degrees in the school and the MS and PhD in conjunction with the Yale Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Our continuing education and distance learning programs are designed for the public health workforce to enhance their skills to meet today's needs in the field. We also offer special exploratory summer programs for undergraduate and high school students in environmental health sciences and biostatistics. Optimal Class Size At YSPH, you are not just a number. Indeed, with the student to faculty ratio of 3.39, students and faculty are true partners in learning and research. Engage in Research With over 25 YSPH-based research centers and programs, faculty labs AND the rest of the University's resources, you can work and study with mentors in your area of interest or explore interdisciplinary endeavors. A Community that Changes the World Through active engagement in dozens of student organizations and community groups, you won't need to finish your degree to start making a difference locally or globally. June 03, 2021 For Online Lectures, YSPH Educator Prioritizes Engagement When lecturing about social justice and health equity to more than 150 students last semester, Yale School of Public Health’ Danya Keene knew how to keep her online audience engaged. Read more 14 Events you could attend in June 2022 YSPH Calendar P.O. Box 208034 60 College Street New Haven, CT 06520-0834 Maps & Directions Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook Library & Reference © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 06/04/2021 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [66,11,34,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-testimonial-components-FeaturedTestimonial","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","features-featured-article-list-components-FeaturedArticlePost","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [9,68,7,14,36,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-testimonial-components-FeaturedTestimonial","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","features-featured-article-list-components-FeaturedArticlePost","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}