Skip to Main Content Admissions and Financial Aid Admissions and Financial Aid Yale School of Public HealthYSPH Admissions & Financial Aid Apply & Visit Student Life & Academic Support Applied Practice & Research Opportunities Education & Training Careers in Public Health Tuition & Financial Aid I'm truly grateful for the opportunity to represent Yale and YSPH. Coming to YSPH has been literally one of the best decisions of my life — no where else have I had the hands-on mentorship that I have enjoyed from professors who have guided me in many ways with skills, and advice that has shaped my research focus for an academic career. Shadrack Frimpong, MPH '20 Advanced Professional Program Admissions and the Student Experience at YSPH Innovating through Collaboration When you come to the Yale School of Public Health, you join a community. This community — of peers, mentors, collaborators, alumni and professional staff — is dedicated to nurturing your intellectual and professional success in the field of public health. At Yale, you will learn from national and international leaders in science-based public policy, health interventions and basic research so that you may step into a career with impact. The Yale School of Public Health offers many opportunities for innovation and collaboration, and students are encouraged to explore the interdisciplinary nature of public health through coursework and collaboration across the University. Never has this been more evident than during the COVID-19 pandemic, which saw an unprecedented from response across the school. If you are eager to have impact while building your toolkit and credentials in public health, Yale may be the place for you. Learn more about our students, alumni, student services and admissions process here. Mailing List Request more information and register for MPH admissions updates. Sign up Apply Applications to the MPH program are received through the SOPHAS website. For further information follow the instructions in the Admissions section for the MPH program. SOPHAS Education and Training — Preparing you to answer the big questions with flexible curricula and concentrations. MPH, MS & PhD programs Incoming Students Gateway Information for New MPH Students YSPH Calendar Innovating Through Collaboration Reserve a Room PO Box 208034 New Haven, CT 06520-8034 47 College Street New Haven, CT 06510 Maps & Directions Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook Library & Reference © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 05/03/2022 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [66,11,4,77,28,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-testimonial-components-FeaturedTestimonial","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","modules-banners-components-Banner","features-cta-block-components-CtaBlock","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [9,68,7,14,5,79,30,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-testimonial-components-FeaturedTestimonial","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","modules-banners-components-Banner","features-cta-block-components-CtaBlock","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}