Skip to Main Content About Us Admissions Education & Training Research & Practice Faculty Alumni myYSPH DownloadHi-Res Photo Paul Anastas Professor of Epidemiology (Environmental Health Sciences) and Teresa and H. John Heinz III Professor in the Practice of Chemistry for the Environment Contact Information Paul Anastas Email paul.anastas@yale.edu Biography Research & Publications News DownloadHi-Res Photo Appointments Environmental Health Sciences Biography Paul T. Anastas is the Teresa and H. John Heinz III Professor in the Practice of Chemistry for the Environment. He has appointments in the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, Department of Chemistry, and Department of Chemical Engineering. In addition, Prof. Anastas serves as the Director of the Center for Green Chemistry and Green Engineering at Yale. Anastas took public service leave from Yale to serve as the Assistant Administrator for the US Environmental Protection Agency and the Agency Science Advisor from 2009-2012. From 2004 -2006, Paul Anastas served as Director of the ACS Green Chemistry Institute in Washington, D.C. He was previously the Assistant Director for the Environment in the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy where he worked from 1999-2004. Trained as a synthetic organic chemist, Dr. Anastas received his Ph.D. from Brandeis University and worked as an industrial consultant. He is credited with establishing the field of green chemistry during his time working for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as the Chief of the Industrial Chemistry Branch and as the Director of the U.S. Green Chemistry Program. Dr. Anastas has published widely on topics of science through sustainability including eleven books, such as Benign by Design, Designing Safer Polymers, Green Engineering, and his seminal work with co-author John Warner, Green Chemistry: Theory and Practice. Activities Green Chemistry Collaboration Australia 2008 There is an active partnership between the Center for Green Chemistry &amp; Green Engineering at Yale and the Centre for Green Chemistry at Monash University. URL: http://www.greenchemistry.yale.edu/partnerships/ Green Technology Collaboration United Kingdom 2008 There is an active partnership between the Center for Green Chemistry &amp; Green Engineering at Yale and the Clean Technology Group at the University of Nottingham. URL: http://www.greenchemistry.yale.edu/partnerships/ Pan-African Green Chemistry Network South Africa 2007 While there are many challenges associated with delivering chemistry education in Africa, the Yale Center is focused on working with current students and faculty to promote the design and implementation of the Pan-African Green Chemistry Network to develop infrastructure and industry. This partnership was formalized with a conference held in January 2007 in Cape Town, South Africa organized by Prof. John C. Warner and will continue to develop and strengthen through research and education collaborations. Departments & Organizations Climate Change and Health Environmental Health Sciences Office of Cooperative Research Yale School of Public Health Edit Profile 14 Events you could attend in June 2022 YSPH Calendar Innovating Through Collaboration Reserve a Room P.O. Box 208034 60 College Street New Haven, CT 06520-0834 Maps & Directions Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook Library & Reference © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 07/15/2019 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [0,1,13,3,102,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-profile-components-profile-details-ProfileDetails","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [0,2,16,4,104,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-profile-components-profile-details-ProfileDetails","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}