Skip to Main Content About Us Admissions Education & Training Research & Practice Faculty Alumni myYSPH Yale Team Wins Emory Morningside Global Health Case Competition. YSPH Students: Ehsan Abualanain YSPH ’22 and Olivia Canie YSPH ’23. Yale Institute for Global Health A Call to Action for Maternal & Child Health. Focus Digital Magazine - Spring 2022 The Future of Public Health is Happening at Yale. Support YSPH Campaign to improve the school resources needed to achieve the goals for the health of humanity. Giving for Humanity YSPH Student-run Organizations provide opportunities to come together to share in the Yale experience and expand your social and professional network across the University. Student-run Organizations Yale School of Public Health graduates urged to build trust and maintain hope. 2022 YSPH Commencement The Humanities, Arts and Public Health Practice at Yale (HAPPY) is an interdisciplinary initiative focused on health and the humanities, leveraging the rich resources across Yale’s campus. HAPPY Initiative Yale Team Wins Emory Morningside Global Health Case Competition. YSPH Students: Ehsan Abualanain YSPH ’22 and Olivia Canie YSPH ’23. Yale Institute for Global Health A Call to Action for Maternal & Child Health. Focus Digital Magazine - Spring 2022 The Future of Public Health is Happening at Yale. Support YSPH Campaign to improve the school resources needed to achieve the goals for the health of humanity. Giving for Humanity YSPH Student-run Organizations provide opportunities to come together to share in the Yale experience and expand your social and professional network across the University. Student-run Organizations Yale School of Public Health graduates urged to build trust and maintain hope. 2022 YSPH Commencement The Humanities, Arts and Public Health Practice at Yale (HAPPY) is an interdisciplinary initiative focused on health and the humanities, leveraging the rich resources across Yale’s campus. HAPPY Initiative Yale Team Wins Emory Morningside Global Health Case Competition. YSPH Students: Ehsan Abualanain YSPH ’22 and Olivia Canie YSPH ’23. Yale Institute for Global Health A Call to Action for Maternal & Child Health. Focus Digital Magazine - Spring 2022 The Future of Public Health is Happening at Yale. Support YSPH Campaign to improve the school resources needed to achieve the goals for the health of humanity. Giving for Humanity YSPH Student-run Organizations provide opportunities to come together to share in the Yale experience and expand your social and professional network across the University. Student-run Organizations The passion of You. The promise of Yale. Your ideas and our collaborative culture. That's what will improve public health. Latest News May 31, 2022 Study Empowers Long COVID Patients as They Struggle to Find Relief Read more May 26, 2022 YSPH Statement on the Mass Murders in Buffalo and Uvalde Read more May 24, 2022 Yale School of Public Health graduates urged to build trust and maintain hope Read more May 23, 2022 Economic burden of Lyme disease could be nearly $1 billion annually Read more May 21, 2022 Theatermakers Add Their Voices To Climate Crisis FightSource: Arts Council Greater New Haven Read more May 20, 2022 YSPH student Nassim Ashford, M.P.H. ’23, takes his passion for combating racial injustice to global stage Read more May 20, 2022 Monkeypox Outbreaks: Where They Are and What We Know (Updated)Source: Gizmodo Read more May 20, 2022 'It's not going to be over': Experts say COVID could stick around in CT this summer and beyondSource: CT Insider Read more More News Meet Some of Our Faculty Paul Anastas Professor of Epidemiology (Environmental Health Sciences) and Teresa and H. John Heinz III Professor in the Practice of Chemistry for the Environment View Full Profile Elizabeth Claus, PhD, MD Professor of Biostatistics; Director of Medical Research, School of Public Health Research Interests Astrocytoma Breast Neoplasms Epidemiology Glioma Meningioma Neurosurgery Oligodendroglioma Statistics as Topic Central Nervous System Neoplasms View Full Profile Marcella Nunez-Smith, MD, MHS Associate Dean for Health Equity Research and C.N.H. Long Professor of Internal Medicine (General Medicine), of Epidemiology (Chronic Disease) and of Public Health (Social And Behavioral Sciences) & Professor of Internal Medicine (General Medicine); Associate Dean, Health Equity Research; Affiliated Faculty, Yale Institute for Global Health; Founding Director, Equity Research and Innovation Center (ERIC), Yale School of Medicine; Director, Center for Research Engagement (CRE); Director, Center for Community Engagement and Health Equity; Deputy Director for Health Equity Research and Workforce Development, Yale Center for Clinical Investigation (YCCI); Director, Pozen-Commonwealth Fund Fellowship in Health Equity Leadership Research Interests Chronic Disease Health Services Research Internal Medicine Social Justice Socioeconomic Factors Global Health Women's Health Caribbean Region Vulnerable Populations Minority Health Healthcare Disparities Community-Based Participatory Research Social Discrimination Social Determinants of Health Patient Reported Outcome Measures Global Burden of Disease Population Health COVID-19 View Full Profile COVID-19 Research and Practice YSPH is at the forefront of the worldwide response to the Pandemic Learn about our initiatives Upcoming Events Jun 20221Today 5:00 PM6:00 PMSchool OnlyKayla Del Biondo Finding and Reading Public Health Literature as an Intern Zoom! https://yale.zoom.us/j/99899613902?from=addon Add event to Calendar Jun 20221Today Everyone (Public) 6:30 PM8:00 PMTara Sanft, MD - Maryam Lustberg, MD, MPH - Franklin Brown, PhD, ABPP - Heather Studwell, RN Smilow Shares: Patient & Family Cancer Survivor Series: Late & Long-Term Side Effects of Cancer Treatment Zoom link available after registration Add event to Calendar Jun 20222Tomorrow Everyone (Public) 9:00 AM10:00 AMZhao Ni, PhD, BMedSci, RN - Jeffrey Wickersham, PhD CIRA Talk: "Developing a Chatbot to Promote HIV Testing and Prevention" https://bit.ly/3KKL3MI Add event to Calendar Jun 20223Friday School Only 12:00 PM1:00 PMSpeakers are to be announced. Finding & Reading Public Health Literature as an Intern Zoom! https://yale.zoom.us/j/92002764551?from=addon Add event to Calendar See All Events Download The Calendar Learn More About Our School DEI at YSPH Social Entrepreneurship Communications and PR Giving Humanities, Arts and Public Health Practice at Yale (HAPPY) Quick Resources for Students, Faculty & Staff Academic Calendar Branding and Templates Faculty and PostDoc Resources MPH Student Resources MS/PhD Student Resources Office of PR and Communications Work Request Form Social Entrepreneurship Student Information System (SIS) YSPH Bulletin 14 Events you could attend in June 2022 YSPH Calendar Innovating Through Collaboration Reserve a Room P.O. Box 208034 60 College Street New Haven, CT 06520-0834 Maps & Directions Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook Library & Reference © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 05/24/2022 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [1,49,11,15,67,70,6,96,4,77,0,2,3,5,86,45,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-linked-content-carousel-components-LinkedContentCarousel","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","common-components-IFrame","features-testimonial-components-SmallTestimonial","modules-article-components-ArticleWidget","modules-profile-components-OrganizationMemberListingContainer","modules-banners-components-Banner","modules-events-components-event-lists-FeaturedEventList","features-link-list-components-link-list-LinkList","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [2,51,7,14,18,9,69,72,6,98,5,79,0,3,1,4,88,47,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-linked-content-carousel-components-LinkedContentCarousel","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","common-components-IFrame","features-testimonial-components-SmallTestimonial","modules-article-components-ArticleWidget","modules-profile-components-OrganizationMemberListingContainer","modules-banners-components-Banner","modules-events-components-event-lists-FeaturedEventList","features-link-list-components-link-list-LinkList","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}