Menu Skip to content Home Members Press Publications Research Teaching Experimental Soft Matter Physics and Biophysics Dead cell debris stops microbial warfare Posted on June 11, 2021 by admin We published a new paper (link) showing that the material properties of dead cells impacts microbial social interactions. How do antagonistic bacteria coexist in crowded biofilms? Most contact killing studies focus on cellular and sub-cellular events over short time scales, showing that the abundance of ‘target’ cells (i.e., cells that are susceptible to attack) can rapidly decrease. These observations reinforce the idea that contact killing is a highly potent antagonistic strategy. Thus, for killer and target cells to coexist, the current assumption is that target cells must possess strain-specific, genetically controlled defense mechanisms. However, we found that physical consequences of cell death prevent further lethal attacks from occurring. Dead cell debris accumulates at the interfaces between killer and target cells, contact a physical barrier. The barrier separates killer and target cells, preventing contact and thus preventing contact killing. Our results indicate that while very effective at reducing the population of competing cells on first contact, contact killing can actually help antagonistic bacteria coexist. | Leave a comment New rules for the evolution of specialization Posted on June 11, 2021 by admin We have a new paper in eLife (link) in which we show that specialization may evolve more readily than previously thought. The single most important benefit of multicellularity is the fact that organisms can evolve specialized cell types (i.e., being a brain or skin cell), but we know little about how specialization first evolved. It has long been assumed that specialization will evolve only if there is an accelerating, or convex, return on investment; for example, if twice the investment in a given task produces four times the yield. We have been studying the role of group structure in the evolution of specialization, using a minimal individual-based model. Surprisingly, we found that for a broad class of sparsely connected structures, specialization evolves even with saturating, or concave, returns on investment. Sparsely connected groups are able to connect many complementary specialists, which increases the benefit of specialization, without also connecting many like-specialists, which decreases the value of specialization. Our results remove a significant barrier to the evolution of specialization – the existence of accelerating returns on investment – and thus suggest that the evolution of specialization is even more favorable than previously thought | Leave a comment New paper on the cyberphysical risks of hacked cars Posted on July 30, 2019 by admin What do hacked connected cars have in common with biophysics and soft matter? Active and emergent phenomena! In a collaboration with Jesse Silverberg of Multiscale Systems, Inc., we find that the consequences of a large scale hack of connected cars could be dire – but are predicted through an extension of percolation theory! Paper here, and summary in Physics here. | Leave a comment New paper on the surprising robustness of hierarchical structures Posted on February 5, 2019 by admin Check out our new paper on the mechanics of hierarchical structures – and its relevance for evolution – published today in PNAS. Also, a great write-up is available here. | Leave a comment New paper on how to evolve a large multicellular body! Posted on May 15, 2018 by admin In our previous paper on the evolution of multicellularity, we showed that mechanical stresses develop during growth, eventually fracture clusters of cells into two pieces. Now we ask: when faced with this mechanical challenge, what is the best way to evolve large size? In our new paper, selected as a Rapid Communication in PRE, we show increasing bond strength does little, but modify how cells pack does a lot! | Leave a comment Our new paper on the mechanical consequences of death and reproduction is out! Posted on January 11, 2018 by admin Our new paper in PRL investigates an effective fluctuation response relationship in biofilms featuring death and reproduction. The fluctuation-dissipation theorem, derived by Harry Nyquist in the 1920’s, is essential to our understanding of equilibrium solids. The relationship between thermal fluctuations and mechanical responses provided a framework through which mechanical properties of solids were measurable and predictable. Our paper. The same may be possible for living films; we investigated it in collaboration with the Hammer lab, here at Georgia Tech’s School of Biological Sciences. Our work builds on a beautiful paper from Risler, Peilloux, and Proust, which investigated a model of apoptosis and reproduction in tissues. | Leave a comment Our paper on packing and the evolution of multicellularity is out! Posted on December 6, 2017 by admin What do nascent multicellular organisms and colloidal particles have in common? Packing matters! Check out our new Nature Physics paper to learn more! Also, be sure to read the fantastic News&Views article on this work by Vernita Gordon! | Leave a comment New preprint on arxiv about life in the coffee-ring Posted on July 19, 2017 by admin Our new preprint investigates how coffee-ring-effect produces gradients in cell-density when a drop of liquid culture is dried. These initial conditions have a large impact on the subsequent competition between strains, and can even switch which strain wins. Thus, the coffee-ring effect may ultimately impact evolutionary outcomes. | Leave a comment Congratulations to Dhaivat Mehta! Posted on May 3, 2017 by admin Dhaivat Mehta was one of the grand award winners at this year’s Georgia Science & Engineering Fair! He has been working with us on his project “Modeling T6ss-Mediated Killing in Microbial Colonies.” | Leave a comment Our paper on ‘Model A’ coarsening and the evolution of cooperation is out! Posted on February 8, 2017 by admin Check out our paper on a different form of active matter, whose activity is not due to mobility, but to death and reproduction! Published this week in Nature Communications, this interdisciplinary paper brought together classic physics, microbiology, ecology and more! | Leave a comment Post navigation ← Older posts Search Recent Posts Dead cell debris stops microbial warfare New rules for the evolution of specialization New paper on the cyberphysical risks of hacked cars New paper on the surprising robustness of hierarchical structures New paper on how to evolve a large multicellular body! Archives June 2021 July 2019 February 2019 May 2018 January 2018 December 2017 July 2017 May 2017 February 2017 December 2016 November 2016 July 2016 January 2016 May 2015 January 2015 Pages Members Press Publications Research Teaching June 2022 M T W T F S S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 « Jun Meta Log in Entries feed Comments feed WordPress.org Adamos free Portfolio WordPress Theme Powered By WordPress