Skip to main content Yale Center for International and Professional Experience Career Strategy Fellowships Study Abroad Summer Session About Program Overview and Goals Program Team Media Statistics Contact Y-VISP Academics Course Selection Credit Transfer and Transcripts Advising Policies Finding a Research Opportunity Coming to Yale Admissions & Timeline Pre-arrival Logistics Arrival Orientation Connect with Peers Visa Resources and FAQ Living at Yale Y-VISP Student Life Support for Y-VISP Students Y-VISP Peer Liaisons Alums Alumni Network Regional Ambassadors Enter your keywords Last updated: 02/08/2022 - 12:59pm Visiting Students at Yale. How does it work? The Yale Visiting International Students Program (Y-VISP) invites students from Y-VISP partner institutions to study at Yale University. Y-VISP students live in the residential colleges with Yale College students, take classes alongside Yale students, and participate in a variety of extracurricular programs and events that are open to the Yale community. Program oversight comes from the Y-VISP Program Team and an energetic Y-VISP steering committee, made up of colleagues from Yale’s Center for International and Professional Experience, the residential colleges, and other partner departments around the university. Learn More Yalies Y-VISP students are supported by Y-VISP program staff and Yale College Peer Liaisons (Y-VISP PLs). The Y-VISP Peer Liaisons will work with the Director of the Yale Visiting International Student Program and the Y-VISP Program Coordinator to support the Yale Visiting International Student Program. Learn More Coming to Yale For Prospective & Accepted Y-VISP Students Prior to arriving at Yale, the Director of Y-VISP works closely with partner institutions to make sure that Y-VISP students’ transitions to Yale are as smooth as possible, and they are well-prepared for their journey to New Haven. Learn More Living at Yale Events, Extracurriculars & Support With support from the Director of Y-VISP, the Y-VISP Steering Committee, and countless others, Y-VISP students are welcomed to Yale with open arms and are lead through an intense and helpful orientation program. Learn More Search this Site 55 Whitney Avenue, 3rd Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-0800 Main Navigation About Academics Coming to Yale Living at Yale Alums Contact Y-VISP Name * Email * Subject * - Select -General questionsPartner institutionsEligibilityApplicationArrivalAcademicsLiving at YaleExtracurricularHealthCostVisasAlumni questionsWebsite questions Message * About CIPE The Yale Center for International and Professional Experience is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. Career Strategy Fellowships and Funding Study Abroad Summer Session ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved. | Accessibility | Privacy Log in