Skip to main content It's Your YaleIt’s Your Yale Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Yale Veterans Network Leadership Team Photos Get In Touch Events Newsletter Archive Features Archive Job Listings Welcome The vision of the Yale Veterans Network (YVN) is to make Yale University the employer of choice for veterans, reservists, and members of the National Guard. The mission of the Yale Veterans Network (YVN) is to create a Yale community of veterans, veteran leaders and allies who support and encourage their recruitment, career development, growth and retention. Join our mailing list by contacting: yvn@yale.edu. Electronic newsletter frequency is approximately once per month, with the occasional time-sensitive announcement interspersed as needed. View our Newsletter Archive, read more about how and why Veterans Count at Yale, or update your Workday Veteran status now to be kept informed. YVN News Employee Referral Process January 31, 2022 The New Haven Hiring Initiative (NHHI) is looking for employee referrals from YVN members. DAY & YVN Fall Social Event Recap November 22, 2021 On November 3, Yale Veterans Network (YVN) and DiversAbility at Yale (DAY) held their third Winter Social, which was the first in-person affinity group social since 2020. More news... Community News Tread On Trafficking Wellness Challenge June 30, 2022 Join Yale’s affinity groups for a 30-day wellness challenge and fundraiser to help end child traf March Veterans Empowerment Seminar March 17, 2022 Please join the National Veterans Council for Legal Redress during our monthly Veterans Empower More news... Events YVN Steering Committee Meeting Wed June 08, 2022 (see "Description" for details) See map Juneteenth New Haven 2022 Sat June 18, 2022 (see "Description" for details) See map Finding Your Career Match Tue July 12, 2022 Online See map More Events Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Sponsored by the Office of Diversity & Inclusion Affinity group membership is open to all members of the Yale Community. Facebook Twitter YouTube