toggle mobile menu Facebook Twitter Stay Informed Who We Are What We Do The Professional Learning Academy The Early Learning Study at Harvard The Fellows Program 2021 Innovation Challenge Programs Certificate in Early Education Leadership Upcoming Programs Past Programs Early Learning Study For Participants Families Educators General Information Resources In the News Resource Hub The Early Learning Study at Harvard Webinars & Videos Books & Articles Facebook Twitter Stay Informed Saul Zaentz Early Education Initiative Driving Transformation in Early Education Launched in 2016, the Saul Zaentz Early Education Initiative promotes the knowledge, professional learning, and collective action necessary to cultivate optimal early learning environments and experiences. We conduct groundbreaking research to drive policy and practice, offer a new model of professional learning for leaders around the world, and train graduate students to spark change. CEEL Community Webinar Series Through these webinars, members of the CEEL community gather virtually and learn more about key leadership topics that are part of the core certificate curriculum. During these live events, CEEL participants and alumni can gain practical strategies, tools, and ways of thinking about challenges and opportunities for improvement in their own settings. We share recordings of select events with the broader early education community here. Watch Now New Report: Persevering Through the Pandemic This report captures the ongoing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on children, families, and early educators in Massachusetts. It focuses on two guiding questions: How are children doing? And what's helping children and families cope with the challenges they have faced over the past fifteen months? Read Now FCC Innovation Networks Award Meet some of the providers chosen to receive the 2021 Family Child Care Innovation Networks Award. Watch Now Our Approach We pursue interlocking strategies for impact: conducting research to drive policy and practice, designing and spreading high-quality professional learning, and pioneering a fellows program to build a pipeline of new leaders. Learn More Strengthening the field through Professional Learning Pioneering a Fellows Program to cultivate new leadership Generating Research that drives action The Early Learning Study at Harvard: A Groundbreaking Approach to Informing Early Childhood Education at Scale Learn more about how we are generating knowledge, strategies, and solutions for a high-quality system of early education and care. SPOTLIGHT Certificate in Early Education Leadership Gain the core knowledge, management skills, and tools necessary to build and advance high-quality early education. Learn More Resource Hub For Leaders & Educators Read More For Scholars Read More For Funders Read More Our History In July 2016, the Harvard Graduate School of Education launched the Saul Zaentz Early Education Initiative, with a generous gift from the Saul Zaentz Charitable Foundation. The initiative expresses the commitment of Saul Zaentz, an acclaimed music and film producer, to education and social justice. Zaentz’s exceptional body of work in film combined intuition and experimentation, a rich fund of knowledge, and a belief that film has the power to change our way of seeing the world — the very mix of elements needed to transform early education so that it meets its potential for all children. Saul Zaentz Early Education Initiative 8 Story Street Cambridge, MA 02138 zaentz@gse.harvard.edu Facebook Twitter Stay in Touch Sign up to learn about upcoming events, resources, and recent news. Stay Informed Saul Zaentz Early Education Initiative website Harvard Graduate School of Education website Sitemap | Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Stay Informed Thank you for expressing interest in the Zaentz Early Education Initiative. We want to send you the resources and organizational news that means the most to you, so please take a moment to tell us a little more about yourself. We'll be in touch soon! First Name* Last Name* Email* Title/Role* Organization* What are you interested in learning more about? Early Learning Study at Harvard Fellows Program Professional Learning Academy Resources Innovation Challenges Certificate in Early Education Leadership Submit