Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Advanced Instrumentation Inventing one-of-a-kind tools that spur new scientific experiments Jackson Welles, an undergraduate student in Electrical Engineering at Columbia, builds a new tool in the Advanced Instrumentation lab (Credit: Bruce Gilbert). The tools that drive scientific progress are often made from scratch, not bought off a shelf. At the Advanced Instrumentation Group, we work closely with researchers to design, build and test commercially unavailable instruments, equipment and software. Our team includes experts that span electrical, mechanical, and optical engineering; we have created everything from a device that maps the steps of a fruit fly to new approaches to probing the brain without harming it. Our in-house facilities, available for researchers to use, include a machine and fabrication shop, a metrology and optics lab, and workshops for the design, development and testing that supports new products throughout their life cycles. We believe that engineers and life scientists must work closely together to bring to life next-generation solutions and answer fundamental questions about the brain. NEWS ABOUT ADVANCED INSTRUMENTATION Movement May 27, 2016 Tracing the Steps that Guide Movement For Richard Mann, answers to some of biology’s biggest puzzles, such as how our brains direct our muscles to move, can be found in the tiniest of places. View All News > VIDEOS OF ADVANCED INSTRUMENTATION The Flywalker A new device tracks the footsteps of fruit flies. | Contact Tanya Tabachnik Director of Shared Resources; Codirector of Scientfic Platforms [email protected] 212-853-0472 Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates Related Scientific Platforms Cellular Imaging Developing new imaging technologies to illuminate the secret lives of cells Custom Genetic Access Services Game-changing tools for investigating brain cell activity Flow Cytometry Deciphering the brain, one cell at a time Magnetic Resonance Imaging Scanning the brain and body in health and sickness Virology Building molecular tools to map and explore the nervous system Research Computing Providing robust computation and data storage solutions for labs footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Interneurons illuminated in different colors in a mouse spine (Columbia's Zuckerman Institute)