Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Science Decision Making Decision Making Curious Minds: How Do We Make Everyday Decisions? Every action begins with the decision to act. Understanding the origins of how the brain makes choices, from little everyday decisions to big life-changing ones, is therefore the first step to understanding our behaviors. And perhaps even to guiding behavior. How exactly does the mental machinery inside your skull weigh different options: the coffee or the cappuccino? What causes the brain to cross the threshold from indecision to decision? How do emotions color the decisions you make? Why do people sometimes make seemingly irrational choices? And why are some choices simple — and others incredibly difficult? To gain insight into these questions, researchers at Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute look for patterns in the electrical activity of nerves cells as the brain makes up its mind. We study how the brain picks what it should pay attention to out in the world, and how it deals with uncertainty — topics of interest to economists, psychologists and anyone seeking to discover why we behave in the ways we do. Our work in this area provides a starting point for those developing treatments for addiction, anxiety disorders and other problems that affect our ability to make decisions. Explore Decision Making Brain Network that Controls, Redirects Attention Identified Read more> How Does the Brain Put Decisions into Context? Read more> How Our Brains Seek Out Information Read more> Meet the Scientists Working in Decision Making Richard Axel, MD Andrés Bendesky, MD, PhD Rui Costa, DVM, PhD Vincent P. Ferrera, PhD Vikram Gadagkar, PhD Jacqueline Gottlieb, PhD Daniel Salzman, MD, PhD Michael N. Shadlen, MD, PhD Daphna Shohamy, PhD Daniel M. Wolpert, PhD Decision Making in the News The 'Unique Properties' of Human Attention July 13, 2015 Brain Makes Decisions the Way Alan Turing Cracked Codes February 11, 2015 Make Information Overload Disappear January 25, 2016 View All News > Videos Featuring Decision Making How the Brain Thinks, Decides and Creates In this lecture, Michael Shadlen, MD, PhD, discusses exciting new insights into how the brain makes decisions — from the simple to the complex — that lay the foundation for its most amazing abilities. Learning From Experience: How Our Brains Remember the Past and Shape Our Future Koons, Temkin and Kandel: An Artist's Creative Process in Action | Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates Discover the power of your support. Seed the discoveries that make a difference. Donate footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University These neurons help to distinguish safety from danger (Siegelbaum Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute).