Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Our Science We believe that understanding how the brain works — and gives rise to mind and behavior — is the most urgent and exciting challenge of our time. Depleted cell numbers in the CA2 brain region (blue) of a mouse, which cause deficits in social memory (Credit: Vivien Chevalyre/Gogos Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute/Columbia University Medical Center). Discover the Brain At Columbia's Zuckerman Institute, we are conducting pioneering research into critical aspects of the brain — how it develops, performs, endures and recovers — gaining insights that promise to benefit people and societies everywhere. Computation Can math explain the brain? Decision Making How do you make a choice? Disease What are the causes of sickness? Evolution What makes your brain special? Growth & Development How does your brain mature? Learning & Memory How do you store and recall information? Movement How do you control your body? The Senses How do you perceive your surroundings? Tools & Technology How does innovation push the boundaries of knowledge? Our Scientific Platforms Our Scientific Platform teams develop the tools and services that help drive discovery throughout Columbia University and the broader scientific community. Working hand-in-hand with scientists, our experts push the limits of cellular imaging and magnetic resonance; create state-of-the-art molecular tools to reveal the workings of the nervous system; design and build one-of-a-kind devices to advance research; and host leading-edge computing resources that store and process vast amounts of research data. Advanced Instrumentation Inventing one-of-a-kind tools that spur new scientific experiments Cellular Imaging Developing new imaging technologies to illuminate the secret lives of cells Custom Genetic Access Services Game-changing tools for investigating brain cell activity Flow Cytometry Deciphering the brain, one cell at a time Magnetic Resonance Imaging Scanning the brain and body in health and sickness Research Computing Providing robust computation and data storage solutions for labs Virology Building molecular tools to map and explore the nervous system Our Scientific Programs Our Scientific Programs serve to foster a vibrant culture of scientific inquiry. Our growing suite of programs — from seminars and symposia to workshops and journal clubs — are targeted to Institute faculty and trainees, as well as to the broader Columbia and scientific communities. These programs reflect the conviction that a fertile intellectual environment nurtures the creative collaborations and transformational discoveries to advance science and medicine. Columbia Neuroscience Seminars Sparking the conversations that drive science forward Affiliate Members Bringing a wide perspective of inquiry and nurturing new insights across Columbia campuses Growing Up in Science Sharing personal stories about becoming and being a scientist Zuckerman Institute Postdoctoral Seminar Series Promoting scientific exchange and inquiry among early-career neuroscientists Our Residencies Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute sponsors a wide range of talented individuals for a period of engagement, inspiration and discovery. Our resident artists and writers foster connections between the arts and the sciences, through meetings, performances, collaborations and workshops with students, scientists and our neighboring community. Our resident scholars further the Institute’s commitment to being an inclusive, equitable and diverse place of scientific discovery. These programs provide unique forums for new voices that enhance our exploration of the mind, the brain and human behavior. Alan Kanzer Artist-in-Residence Julie Mehretu Fostering creative pursuit in neuroscience and the arts Jazz Artist-in-Residence Miguel Zenón At the intersection of music and the mind Scholar-in-Residence Dana Crawford, PhD Recognizing and reducing bias, prejudice and racism in science Alan Kanzer Writer-in-Residence Nicole Krauss An exploration of science through narrative and storytelling Latest News Pioneering Neuroscientist Eric Kandel to Retire June 1, 2022 Meet Eric Kandel June 1, 2022 Meet Arnav Raha May 4, 2022 View All News > We collaborate with institutes and researchers across Columbia, including: Center for Theoretical Neuroscience Columbia Translational Neuroscience Initiative Data Science Institute Grossman Center for the Statistics of Mind The Kavli Institute for Brain Science Motor Neuron Center NeuroTechnology Center Columbia Precision Medicine Initiative Presidential Scholars in Society and Neurocience Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain Columbia Nano Initiative Open Technology See how the Zuckerman Institute is promoting open sharing of new tools and technologies developed in the lab. Learn more Learn more about our past programs Click Here Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates Discover the power of your support. Seed the discoveries that make a difference. Donate footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Interneurons illuminated in different colors in a mouse spine (Columbia's Zuckerman Institute)