Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Cellular Imaging Developing new imaging technologies to illuminate the secret lives of cells Neurons in mouse brain (Credit: Darcy Peterka/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute) Understanding how the brain functions requires powerful technologies capable of revealing the activities of living cells. Guided by this philosophy, the Cellular Imaging team provides access to state-of-the-art imaging instruments, such as microscopes that can scan large groups of cells in an instant with a sheet of light. We train researchers to use these tools, and work hand-in-hand with scientists to design and carry out the experiments that lead to big discoveries. Our facility at Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute serves as a central repository of imaging and image analysis expertise, available to the Institute and to the university at large. We also seek to push the limits of technology by developing new techniques for illuminating the workings of cells, designed to be used at Columbia and shared with the wider scientific community. Explore Cellular Imaging Newborn Brain Cells Required for Memory Read more> Brain Cell Loss Linked to Schizophrenia Read more> cellular imaging in the news August 8, 2017 The Art of Neuroscience: The winners of an annual contest capture the brain at its most beautiful View All News > Contact Darcy S. Peterka, PhD Director of Team Science; Scientific Director of Cellular Imaging [email protected] 347-852-4089 Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates Related Scientific Platforms Advanced Instrumentation Inventing one-of-a-kind tools that spur new scientific experiments Custom Genetic Access Services Game-changing tools for investigating brain cell activity Flow Cytometry Deciphering the brain, one cell at a time Magnetic Resonance Imaging Scanning the brain and body in health and sickness Research Computing Providing robust computation and data storage solutions for labs Virology Building molecular tools to map and explore the nervous system footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Branches of a neuron in the cortex of a living rat. (Credit: Bruno lab/ Columbia's Zuckerman Institute)