Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe The Science Life Advancing science takes all kinds of people from all kinds of backgrounds. Join us for The Science Life, an illustrated series that explores the lived experiences of people working in brain research: the human moments of tragedy and triumph that define what it means to be a scientist and how science is done. If you want to share your story with us, please write to [email protected]. #scilife Meet Eric Kandel Follow one Nobel laureate’s journey into the science of mind. Meet Eric Kandel, MD, a co-director of Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute. Meet Arnav Raha How does a multilingual Indian family shape a scientist's interests? Meet Arnav Raha, Lab Manager in the Gadakar Lab. Meet Dana Crawford How did science become a safe space for a girl kicked out of class for asking too many questions? Meet Dana Crawford, PhD, Scholar-in-Residence at the Zuckerman Institute. Meet Connor Gibbons How is an expert in aquariums helping cuttlefish to feel at home in the lab? Meet Connor Gibbons, Cephalopods Facility Manager in the Axel Lab. Meet Katie Insel What is a neuroscientist who studies adolescents teaching the legal system? Meet Katie Insel, PhD, a postdoctoral research scientist in the Shohamy Lab. Meet Amy Vo Why does a research technician’s work to repurpose drugs remind her of her grandmother? Meet Amy Vo, research technician in the Mason-Dodd lab. Meet Eugenie Peze-Heidsieck How does neuroscience prepare you to go to space? Meet Eugenie Peze-Heidsieck, PhD, a postdoctoral researcher in the Polleux Lab in the running to become an astronaut. Meet Alexis Kim How do neuroscience research and a family legacy intersect for a research technician? Meet Alexis Kim, research technician in the Marlin Lab. Meet Phalaen Chang How did being an Emergency Research Technician inspire a teen to study pain? Meet Phalaen Chang, undergraduate research assistant in the Abdus-Saboor Lab. Meet Mike Haeser How did a life at sea lead an engineer to neuroscience? Meet Mike Haeser, Director of District Energy Systems for Manhattanvile Operations, at Columbia University Facilities and Operations. Meet Andrès Villegas How did a neurodiverse family shape a scientist's interest in the brain? Meet Andrès Villegas, graduate student in the Siegelbaum lab Meet Jennifer Scribner What happened when one woman went back to school for science in her forties? Meet Jennifer Scribner, graduate student in the Axel lab. Meet Abbas Rizvi How did a space-exploring father inspire his son to investigate the brain? Meet Abbas Rizvi, PhD, associate research scientist. Meet Erica Rodriguez How does a scientist who injured her back think about chronic pain in the brain? Meet Erica Rodriguez, PhD, postdoctoral research fellow in the Salzman lab. Meet Ed Johnson How did one scientist change one young New Yorker's life? Meet Ed Johnson, Assistant Director of Procurements and Accounts Payable. Meet Kerel Francis How did a hurricane and floods lead to a career in science for a teen from the bronx? Meet Kerel Francis, lab manager & research assistant in the Bendesky Lab Meet Shivani Bigler What does a middle child and stand-up comic study about the brain? Meet Shivani Bigler, graduate student in the Siegelbaum Lab Meet Marissa Applegate How did video games put a child on the path to neuroscience? Meet Marissa Applegate, graduate student in the Aronov Lab OUR PEOPLE> footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Branches of a neuron in the cortex of a living rat. (Credit: Bruno lab/ Columbia's Zuckerman Institute)