Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Science Evolution Evolution Finding the Brainy Genes That Make Us Human From the lab of Franck Polleux, PhD, Columbia's Zuckerman Institute You have a complex brain compared to most animals on the tree of life. How your brain got to be that way — and just how special it is — remains much of a mystery. The evolutionary history of the brain, from the simplest ones that emerged hundreds of millions of years ago, to Einstein’s unique cerebrum, is still be written. Researchers at Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute have a keen interest in how our brains are similar to those of other animals, and how they are different. Do humans have special genes that shape our brains in special ways? Or do creatures that look very different — humans and flies, for instance — have similar DNA controlling their brain development? And why do people behave differently from mice or worms in the first place? To investigate evolution, we build new tools to study the behaviors of diverse creatures, and to investigate how genes shape the architecture of brains big and small. In addition to uncovering the origins of our ability to think creatively or solve complex problems, our work in this area has led to surprising findings that may further efforts to treat diseases like autism. Explore Evolution How Genes Shape Behavior Read more> How the Brain Turns Down the Volume on Your Noisy Body Read more> This Gene May Underpin Our Brain’s Extraordinary Abilities Read more> Meet the Scientists Working in Evolution Andrés Bendesky, MD, PhD Vincent P. Ferrera, PhD Vikram Gadagkar, PhD Franck Polleux, PhD Nathaniel Sawtell, PhD Evolution in the News How Evolution Repurposed a Bone Gene for Brain Development November 10, 2016 The 'Unique Properties' of Human Attention July 13, 2015 Nerve Cells That Go Out on a Limb Show How the Ability to Tweet Evolved February 14, 2017 View All News > Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates Discover the power of your support. Seed the discoveries that make a difference. Donate footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University 3D image of a living brain created by SCAPE technique (Credit: Hillman Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute)