Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Press Room Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute is dedicated to sharing the extraordinary research of our scientists with broad audiences. Share This: Section through mouse cerebellum (credit: Columbia's Zuckerman Institute). Contact Media Inquiries [email protected] Our Newsletter View Past Issues Our Press Office welcomes media inquiries from all news outlets — including print, broadcast and online — and from all parts of the world. We are happy to arrange interviews, share upcoming research and assist in story development. Members of the media interested in filming or photography at the Zuckerman Institute must obtain explicit permission and are subject to Columbia University's rules and regulations. In order to gain access, parties agree to comply with these policies, display valid credentials and provide a certificate of insurance. For more information on procedures, permission forms and guidance on filming and photography at the Institute, please contact a member of our Communications office. Learn more about the Zuckerman Institute by downloading the guides below, and feel free to contact us at any time. We look forward to hearing from you. All entrances to the Jerome L. Greene Science Center are accessible. The south and west entrances can be accessed without stairs, while a lift is available from the east entrance. Download Zuckerman Institute At a Glance 386.72 kb PDF Jerome L. Greene Science Center Architectural Fact Sheet 525.75 kb PDF Connect with us latest news Pioneering Neuroscientist Eric Kandel to Retire June 1, 2022 Meet Eric Kandel June 1, 2022 Meet Arnav Raha May 4, 2022 View All News > Zuckerman Institute In the News Click Here Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University These neurons help to distinguish safety from danger (Siegelbaum Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute).