Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe About Us We bring together an extraordinary group of researchers from across Columbia University, in a state-of-the-art facility, to transform our understanding of the brain and mind. Motor neurons in nervous system of a mouse (Credit: Columbia's Zuckerman Institute) The future in mind At Columbia's Zuckerman Institute, we believe that a deeper understanding of the brain and mind has the power to transform science and society. Our Vision We are driven to make new discoveries, to pioneer new techniques and to develop new ideas that move science and humanity forward. Our Goals We believe that transformative science can change the world. Our Leadership Led by Rui Costa, DVM, PhD, Daphna Shohamy, PhD, and Nobel laureates Richard Axel, MD, and Eric Kandel, MD, we study critical aspects of the mind and brain, gaining insights that promise to benefit people and societies everywhere. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging Addressing structural inequities in science The Brain Trust A select group of individuals who have a shared commitment and passion for advancing our understanding of the brain. Yearly Recap Annual highlights from Columbia's Zuckerman Institute Jerome L. Greene Science Center Our shared culture of creativity is brought to life in this state-of-the-art facility, purpose-built to spark interaction and the collision of minds. Administration Explore current job opportunities and meet our administrative team. Work with Us Our Team Latest News Pioneering Neuroscientist Eric Kandel to Retire June 1, 2022 Meet Eric Kandel June 1, 2022 Meet Arnav Raha May 4, 2022 View All News > Zuckerman Institute's Stance Against Racism Read Now To close the gap between our genetic and molecular understanding of the brain and what the social sciences, humanities, and professional disciplines tell us about behavior, we are creating a place for scholarship where a spirit of common inquiry yields extraordinary discoveries. Lee C. Bollinger President, Columbia University Zuckerman Institute Code of Conduct Learn More Connect with us Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University 3D image of a living brain created by SCAPE technique (Credit: Hillman Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute)