Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Science Disease Disease How Columbia University is Untangling Alzheimer's Disease The best medicine treats not the symptoms of an illness – but its underlying causes. Yet even today, doctors do not know the exact causes of many brain diseases, which remain complicated and confusing. Battling diseases such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson's will require fundamental leaps in understanding. At Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute, our researchers study how healthy nervous systems work to better understand sickness. Which genes help nerves to function properly? What molecules keep the brain working from moment to moment, and what happens when they go awry? How do systems in the brain communicate to give rise to the everyday activities of our minds, from decision making to memory formation? Advances in fundamental knowledge about the brain today will lay the foundation for future innovations in treating and curing disease. Our work can further the goals of clinical researchers who target diseases of the brain and disorders of the mind, ranging from Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s to schizophrenia and autism. Explore Disease Brain Cell Loss Linked to Schizophrenia Read more> Toxic Protein, Linked to Alzheimer’s and Other Diseases, Exposed in New Detail Read more> Scientists Identify Gene That First Slows, Then Accelerates, ALS in Mice Read more> Meet the Scientists Working on Disease Andrés Bendesky, MD, PhD Mark M. Churchland, PhD Rui Costa, DVM, PhD Anthony W.P. Fitzpatrick, PhD Joseph A. Gogos, MD, PhD Jacqueline Gottlieb, PhD Elizabeth Hillman, PhD Eric R. Kandel, MD Stavros Lomvardas, PhD Tom Maniatis, PhD Carol A. Mason, PhD Franck Polleux, PhD Ning Qian, PhD Nathaniel Sawtell, PhD John Thomas Vaughan, PhD In the news In ALS, a New Understanding of Inflammation in the Spine September 15, 2017 New Uses for Old Medications July 27, 2018 Anorexics Process Food Choices in a Very Different Way October 14, 2015 View All News > Featured Videos Understanding Alzheimer’s Disease Through Its Anatomical Vulnerability Finding the Right Medicine One Patient at a Time Columbia University’s David Goldstein, PhD, a pioneer in genetics and precision medicine, discussed developing targeted treatments that have fundamentally improved the lives of patients living with devastating brain diseases. Long-term Memories Are Maintained by Prion-like Proteins Writing a New Story Together: Confronting Mental Health Disparities with Community Partnerships Can Children Save the Lives of Their Parents in the Throes of Stroke? Neurons’ Faulty Wiring Leads to Serotonin Imbalance, Depression-Like Behavior in Mice Hope in the Face of Fear:  Using Neuroscience to Transform Treatments for Anxiety and OCD | Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates Discover the power of your support. Seed the discoveries that make a difference. Donate footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Neuron with thousands of protrusions, called spines (Credit: Polleux Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute).