Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Flow Cytometry Deciphering the brain, one cell at a time Data from flow cytometry analysis of nerve cells (Credit: Ira Schieren/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute). To advance our understanding of how the brain functions as a whole, scientists investigate the tens of billions of cells that comprise it. Teasing apart the roles and responsibilities of each cell — and using that knowledge to build a complete picture of larger brain circuits, areas or regions — is a herculean challenge, one that cannot be accomplished through traditional imaging methods alone. Flow Cytometry is a powerful technique that enables scientists to rapidly identify and analyze key physical and chemical properties of individual cells, at rates of up to 20,000 cells per second. Cells of interest can be physically separated from the population for further study even if the unique cells are present in a concentration as little as one in a million. The information we glean from these analyses is critical to understanding how individual cells function in a healthy brain, as well as how these cells change when their normal function is disrupted in disease. Contact Ira Schieren Senior Science Officer, Director of Flow Cytometry [email protected] 212-853-1011 Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates Related Scientific Platforms Advanced Instrumentation Inventing one-of-a-kind tools that spur new scientific experiments Cellular Imaging Developing new imaging technologies to illuminate the secret lives of cells Custom Genetic Access Services Game-changing tools for investigating brain cell activity Magnetic Resonance Imaging Scanning the brain and body in health and sickness Research Computing Providing robust computation and data storage solutions for labs Virology Building molecular tools to map and explore the nervous system footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Branches of a neuron in the cortex of a living rat. (Credit: Bruno lab/ Columbia's Zuckerman Institute)