Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Our Programs Fostering conversation and collaboration to support scientists at every stage of their careers A VIBRANT INTELLECTUAL CULTURE At Columbia's Zuckerman Institute, scientists across disciplines and at all career stages are immersed in an environment meant to drive curiosity, build collaborations and spark transformative discoveries. SUPPORT FOR EARLY CAREER RESEARCHERS Scientists beginning their careers develop the skills and confidence to succeed. Postdocs Driving early career success through the Postdoc Program Graduate Students Supporting students pursuing higher degrees in science Undergraduates Exploring research side by side with scientists SYMPOSIA & SEMINARS Events and programs bring researchers together to share new ideas, perspectives and discoveries. Columbia Neuroscience Seminars Sparking the conversations that drive science forward Growing Up in Science Sharing personal stories about becoming and being a scientist Zuckerman Institute Postdoctoral Seminar Series Promoting scientific exchange and inquiry among early-career neuroscientists Biannual Symposium Celebrating the brightest ideas in neuroscience RESIDENCES & FELLOWSHIPS THAT BUILD BRIDGES Artists, writers, musicians and scholars join our community and spark creative insights. Alan Kanzer Artist-in-Residence Julie Mehretu Fostering creative pursuit in neuroscience and the arts Jazz Artist-in-Residence Miguel Zenón At the intersection of music and the mind Scholar-in-Residence Dana Crawford, PhD Recognizing and reducing bias, prejudice and racism in science Alan Kanzer Writer-in-Residence Claire Messud An exploration of science through narrative and storytelling Alan Kanzer Innovation Scholar Zenna Tavares Supporting creative, self-directed research through collaborations and mentorships Affiliate Members Bringing a wide perspective of inquiry and nurturing new insights across Columbia campuses Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Explore our efforts to address structural inequities in science. Learn More Current Job Openings Work With Us Connect with us Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Branches of a neuron in the cortex of a living rat. (Credit: Bruno lab/ Columbia's Zuckerman Institute)