Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Science The Senses The Senses How Does Sugar Drive Consumption? From the lab of Charles S. Zuker, PhD, Columbia's Zuckerman Institute Sugar-sensing neurons (pink) in cNST brain region of a mouse (Credit: Hwei-Ee Tan/Zuker lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute). Your brain lives in solitary confinement: shut up inside your skull, disconnected from the outside world. Your senses open the windows, letting the outside world stream in. Only when your brain pieces together everything you see, hear, touch, taste and smell, can you understand and experience the world around you. At Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute we ask: How does the brain see color, shape and motion, and put all this information together, when a painter looks over her canvas or an athlete tries to catch a ball? Why does one molecule taste salty when it sticks to your tongue, but another taste sweet? How do our brains interpret the soundwaves entering our ears as words, or as music? To investigate questions like these, our researchers study everything from the molecular sensors built into our eyes and noses to the pathways that sensory information takes on its way through the nervous system. From chefs to cellists, we all delight in the use of our senses. Our work will reveal not only how sensory perception occurs, but what happens when it goes awry, as in children with autism who have trouble recognizing faces, for instance, or people with tinnitus annoyed by a constant ringing in their ears. Explore the Senses The Nerve Cells That Enable Fruit Flies to Escape Danger Read more> How Do Fruit Flies See in Color? Study Uncovers Human-like Brain Circuit at Work Read more> Genes on the Move Help Nose Make Sense of Scents Read more> Meet the Scientists Working in the Senses Richard Axel, MD Rudy Behnia, PhD Andrés Bendesky, MD, PhD Aniruddha Das, PhD Jane Dodd, PhD Yasmine El-Shamayleh, PhD Vincent P. Ferrera, PhD Vikram Gadagkar, PhD Michael E. Goldberg, MD Jacqueline Gottlieb, PhD Wesley B. Grueber, PhD Elias B. Issa, PhD Minoree Kohwi, PhD Nikolaus Kriegeskorte, PhD Stavros Lomvardas, PhD Bianca Jones Marlin, PhD Carol A. Mason, PhD Nima Mesgarani, PhD Kenneth D. Miller, PhD Ning Qian, PhD Nathaniel Sawtell, PhD Daniel Salzman, MD, PhD Sarah M.N. Woolley, PhD Charles S. Zuker, PhD The Senses In the News New study shows that taste, like all reality, is but a fragile illusion November 18, 2015 What We Really Taste When We Drink Wine July 11, 2014 Researchers Watch As Our Brains Turn Sounds Into Words January 30, 2014 View All News > Videos Featuring the Senses Thanksgiving: The Brain Science of Taste How the Tongue Keeps Its Tastes Straight Study Advances New Theory of How the Brain Is Wired Scents and Sensibility: Representations of the Olfactory World in the Brain | Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates Discover the power of your support. Seed the discoveries that make a difference. Donate footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Branches of a neuron in the cortex of a living rat. (Credit: Bruno lab/ Columbia's Zuckerman Institute)