Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Custom Genetic Access Services Confocal image of an immunostained section from mouse spinal cord. Green: ChAT+ve motor neurons and C boutons; Red: TdTomato+ve labeled motor neuron; Blue: KCC2, a chloride transporter (Credit: David Ng/Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute) Game-changing tools for investigating brain cell activity Even the brains of simple animals, such as flies, are incredibly complex. To decode the intricacies of brain function, researchers need tools that can identify, with certainty, specific brain cells and regions of interest. At Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute, Custom Genetic Access Services provides that power. We work with Institute scientists to develop customized molecular and genetic tools that selectively manipulate the activity of brain cells based on their unique genetic identities. This gives us a window into brain activity with an unprecedented level of precision. We are also pioneering a new system to provide one-of-a-kind access to genetically complex cell types. These new tools will drive progress toward a variety of research goals, from tracing the journey that a memory takes through the brain to mapping the brain circuitry that guides the body’s ability to move. Contact David Ng, PhD Director of Genetic Access Tools and Associate Research Scientist [email protected] Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates Related Scientific Platforms Advanced Instrumentation Inventing one-of-a-kind tools that spur new scientific experiments Cellular Imaging Developing new imaging technologies to illuminate the secret lives of cells Flow Cytometry Deciphering the brain, one cell at a time Magnetic Resonance Imaging Scanning the brain and body in health and sickness Research Computing Providing robust computation and data storage solutions for labs Virology Building molecular tools to map and explore the nervous system footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Neuron with thousands of protrusions, called spines (Credit: Polleux Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute).