Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Virology Building molecular tools to map and explore the nervous system A portion of the brainstem called the lateral vestibular nucleus — an area of the brain involved in balance and movement. The green neurons are infected with the newly developed rabies virus. These neurons may have an important role in motor control (Credit: Andrew Murray/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute). New molecular tools that insert genetic material into brain cells in the laboratory have become an essential technology of modern neuroscience. They allow researchers to map entire nervous systems and investigate the molecules responsible for everything from how the brain makes a decision to how the body moves. The Institute’s Virology team has extensive experience in the routine production of state-of-the-art molecular tools. These tools can reveal details critical for understanding how nerve cells function in health and sickness. Our staff works with research laboratories at Columbia University, other academic institutions and scientific corporations to design and construct new viral vectors. We offer a wide range of competitively priced products, same day pickup for labs in New York and consultation services for advanced study design. Contact [email protected] Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates Related Scientific Platforms Advanced Instrumentation Inventing one-of-a-kind tools that spur new scientific experiments Cellular Imaging Developing new imaging technologies to illuminate the secret lives of cells Custom Genetic Access Services Game-changing tools for investigating brain cell activity Flow Cytometry Deciphering the brain, one cell at a time Magnetic Resonance Imaging Scanning the brain and body in health and sickness Research Computing Providing robust computation and data storage solutions for labs footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Branches of a neuron in the cortex of a living rat. (Credit: Bruno lab/ Columbia's Zuckerman Institute)