Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Science Growth & Development Growth & Development Mapping the Many Steps it Takes to Build a Cell From the lab of Gary Struhl, PhD, Columbia's Zuckerman Institute Populations of cells in drosophila wing. Notch is highlighted in yellow (Credit: Paul Langridge/Struhl Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute). The human brain begins as a few mere cells. Those cells multiply, again and again, to create a community of 100 billion cells, more than the number of stars in the observable universe. This transformation is nothing short of a biological miracle. How do different brain cells become specialized and responsible for different tasks, from appreciating a sunset to typing an email? What guides the growth of nerve cells in the brain and body, helping them to form the 100 trillion connections that underlie every thought, memory, movement and sensation? How much can your brain remold itself during your early years, adulthood and in old age? To understand how our brains develop, scientists at Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute start with simpler organisms and animals, including fruit flies, electric fish and rodents. Our research reveals each step of the genetic and molecular choreography that gives rise to a fully formed brain. What we uncover about our early years could inform fields ranging from education to medicine. Understanding how the brain grows could be the key to repairing damage from physical injury or disease. Explore Growth & Development Brain Study Reveals How Teens Learn Differently Than Adults Read more> A Biological ‘Rosetta Stone’ to Decipher How the Body is Built Read more> Curious Minds: How Do Birds Change Their Tune? Read more> Meet the Scientists Working in Growth & Development Jane Dodd, PhD Vikram Gadagkar, PhD Wesley B. Grueber, PhD Elizabeth Hillman, PhD Barry Honig, PhD Minoree Kohwi, PhD Tom Maniatis, PhD Richard S. Mann, PhD Carol A. Mason, PhD Franck Polleux, PhD Lawrence S. Shapiro, PhD Gary Struhl, PhD Andrew Tomlinson, PhD Sarah M.N. Woolley, PhD Growth & Development In the News The Enviably Resilient Young Brain June 22, 2016 Some Songbirds Have Brains Specially Designed to Find Mates for Life February 14, 2018 The Mysteries of How Newborn Cells May Help Form Memories February 29, 2016 View All News > Videos Featuring Growth & Development Finding the Bar Codes in our Brains Using Genetics to Identify the Brain’s 100 Billion Neurons Getting a Head Start: The Developing Brain and the Importance of Early Experiences How Do Early Life Experiences Shape Behavior? Brain Development, Children and Socioeconomic Disparities | Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates Discover the power of your support. Seed the discoveries that make a difference. Donate footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University These neurons help to distinguish safety from danger (Siegelbaum Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute).