Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Work with Us Please explore our current job openings below. All applications must be submitted through Columbia University’s online application system. Zuckerman Institute Principal Investigator Joseph Gogos, MD, PhD (right), confers with a member of his lab (Credit: John Abbott). Job Posting May 20, 2022 Associate Research Scientist – MR Safety Officer The Zuckerman Institute seeks a highly skilled MR Safety Officer to support the MR Research Platform. The MR Safety Officer (Associate Research Scientist) is critical for ensuring the safety and success of the research using MRI systems within a laboratory environment. Job Posting May 20, 2022 Associate Research Scientist – ZI Cryo-EM Facility The Zuckerman Institute seeks an experienced Electron Microscopist as an Associate Research Scientist to support our Cryo-EM facility, equipped with a Titan Krios microscope and Gatan K3 electron detector. Job Posting April 29, 2022 MRI Lead Technologist Columbia University's Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute seeks a Lead Magnetic Resonance (MR) Technologist to support the Magnetic Resonance Research Platform. Job Posting April 12, 2022 Associate Research Scientist- Salzman Lab The Salzman lab within the Zuckerman Institute seeks an Associate Research Scientist (ARS) to facilitate research on the neural circuit mechanisms underlying cue-induced feeding behavior. Job Posting April 12, 2022 Staff Associate I - Dr. Yasmine El-Shamayleh The El-Shamayleh lab within the Zuckerman Institute is seeking a Staff Associate I to study the neural basis of vision. Job Posting March 30, 2022 Postdoctoral Research Scientist – Behnia Lab The Behnia Lab is seeking to hire a Postdoctoral Research Scientist to assist with studies on how our brains see the world around us. Job Posting March 30, 2022 Postdoctoral Research Scientist – Lomvardas Lab In collaboration with the Ruta Lab at Rockefeller University, the Lomvardas Lab at the Zuckerman Institute is seeking a jointly appointed Postdoctoral Research Scientist who will tackle exciting questions exploring the structure and function of sensory receptors. Job Posting February 5, 2022 Magnetic Resonance (MR) Physicist (Associate Research Scientist) The Zuckerman Institute is seeking an Associate Research Scientist to serve as the Magnetic Resonance (MR) Physicist and the Platform Team Lead/Manager to support and manage the Magnetic Resonance Platform (lab). Job Posting February 1, 2022 Associate Research Scientist (Data Scientist) Team Science, Theory Center The Zuckerman Institute is seeking a Data Scientist with a strong interest in neuroscience and behavior with affinity for large mixed data sets and machine learning. Job Posting January 20, 2022 Manager, Public Programs Columbia's Zuckerman Institute is seeking a Public Programs manager to plan and implement the Institute’s public engagement programs including BRAINYAC (a mentored high school research program) and the Education Lab. 1 2 Zuckerman Institute Code of Conduct Learn More Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Sensory neurons in a fruit fly (Grueber Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute).