Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Credit: John Abbott People Rui Costa, DVM, PhD Professor of Neuroscience and Neurology; Director and Chief Executive Officer of Columbia's Zuckerman Institute Movement Decision Making Contact 212-853-1119 [email protected] Go to Lab Website From the moment we are born until we die, our brain is going. It’s not waiting to respond to stimuli; it’s generating stuff. Rui Costa studies the brain mechanisms that guide behavior — both innate and learned. Specifically, he examines the brain circuitry that underlies spontaneous movement, and compares it to the circuitry involved in movement that has been learned over time. He hopes to apply this understanding to finding better ways to treat disorders of movement, such as Parkinson's disease. Read more about Rui Costa, DVM, PhD > Appointments at Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Professor of Neuroscience Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Professor of Neurology Doctoral Program in Neurobiology and Behavior Training Faculty News about Rui Costa Movement Mental Landscapes: The Brain-Spine Connection November 4, 2021 Learning & Memory How Brains Get “In the Zone” July 23, 2021 Movement Brain Region Implicated in Predicting the Consequences of Actions November 4, 2020 View All News > ABOUT RUI COSTA Mastering New Movements How does the brain discover and refine new behaviors? Playing tennis is not an inborn skill. There is no innate stimulus-response wiring in the brain for a killer backhand. And yet humans learn to master the sport, and so many other new types of movement, over both short and long time spans. Rui Costa, PhD, director and chief executive officer at Columbia’s Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute, wants to know how we build up such a stunning repertoire of behavior and continue to expand upon it throughout our lives. He asks questions that on the surface seem simple, but, upon further inspection, are extraordinarily complex. How do we initiate movement? How do we select which movements led to the outcome we wanted so we can repeat them? How do we refine those movements? And, coming full circle, how do we break those patterns to learn new ones? The basal ganglia, a collection of structures near the center of the brain, is a focal point of Dr. Costa’s research; in part, because it is tied to so many disorders that involve a disruption of behavior. “If you look at what goes wrong,” Dr. Costa says, “this is an amazingly prominent area — from autism to Tourette’s, impulsivity, compulsivity, Parkinson’s, Huntington’s; from movement disorders to psychiatric disorders to developmental disorders, even schizophrenia.” His lab uses several methods. By mapping electrical signals in the brains of awake, behaving laboratory mice, for example, they can monitor how brain cells guide an animal’s spontaneous movements (called “babbling”), as it learns specific actions to obtain rewards or as these actions become habits. Dr. Costa’s lab has located parallel circuits in basal ganglia and the cortex — the outer and most advanced layer of the brain — that control habits and intentional movements, respectively, and found that they inhibit each other, which explains why habits are so hard to break. With optogenetics — a technique that uses light to switch cells on and on — they can determine whether those cells are necessary for certain abilities. And using brain-machine interfaces in which a mouse learns to alter an auditory tone by activating certain brain cells, they can see if the same circuits also contribute to more abstract skills. Open questions include whether we are born with established modules for movement that we recombine in various ways, if there is a center in the brain that provides the variability needed to try new things, and how the brain learns which aspect of a movement — flexing of the hand versus the elbow, say — got us what we wanted. Understanding these circuits could enable new therapies for Parkinson’s disease or other disorders of movement. Brain- machine interfaces could also enable paralyzed people to operate a computer. In addition, they could help others learn to control their own brain activity using neurofeedback, a technique in which one’s brain activity is translated into an auditory or visual signal that can be used to monitor the performance of one’s own brain circuits. Dr. Costa sees action as the purpose of the brain and mind. We are always trying new things — babbling — whether in action or thought, and shaping behavior based on the consequences. “From the moment we are born until we die, our brain is going,” he says. “It’s not waiting to respond to stimuli, it’s generating stuff. We have an acting brain, an acting nervous system, and that’s why I want to study it.” Read More + AWARDS AND AFFILIATIONS National Academy of Medicine Member (2019) Brain Initiative Team-Research Circuit Program (U19): Motor Control Principal Investigator (2017-present) Howard Hughes Medical Institute Early Career Scientist Award (2012-2017) Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences Ariëns Kappers Award (2017) GQ Portugal GQ Men of the Year - Science (2015) Fondation Louis-Jeantet Young Investigator Career Award (2014) Order of Sant'Iago da Espada, Portugal Knighted Commander (2014) EMBO Elected Member (2014) Society for Neuroscience Young Investigator Award (2012) National Neurofibromatosis Foundation Young Investigator Award (2001) Selected Publications Complementary Contributions of Striatal Projection Pathways to Action Initiation and Execution. Tecuapetla F, Jin X, Lima SQ, Costa RM Cell.2016 Jul 28 Endocannabinoid Modulation of Orbitostriatal Circuits Gates Habit Formation. Gremel CM, Chancey JH, Atwood BK, Luo G, Neve R, Ramakrishnan C, Deisseroth K, Lovinger DM, Costa RM Neuron.2016 Jun 15 Basal ganglia subcircuits distinctively encode the parsing and concatenation of action sequences. Jin X, Tecuapetla F, Costa RM Nat Neurosci.2014 Mar Concurrent activation of striatal direct and indirect pathways during action initiation. Cui G, Jun SB, Jin X, Pham MD, Vogel SS, Lovinger DM, Costa RM Nature.2013 Feb 14 Corticostriatal plasticity is necessary for learning intentional neuroprosthetic skills. Koralek AC, Jin X, Long JD 2nd, Costa RM, Carmena JM Nature.2012 Mar 4 Read More at Videos Featuring Rui Costa The Brain Science of Figure Skating In celebration of the 2018 Winter Olympics, Silver Medalist Paul Wylie joins Drs. Rui Costa and Nathaniel Sawtell, neuroscientists at Columbia's Zuckerman Institute, on a journey inside the minds of some of the world's most elite athletes. | footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Interneurons illuminated in different colors in a mouse spine (Columbia's Zuckerman Institute)