Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe News Pioneering Neuroscientist Eric Kandel to Retire Rui Costa, DVM, PhD Daphna Shohamy, PhD Richard Axel, MD Eric R. Kandel, MD The Future in Mind At Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute, we believe that understanding how the brain works — and gives rise to mind and behavior — is the most urgent and exciting challenge of our time. Led by Rui Costa, DVM, PhD, Daphna Shohamy, PhD, and Nobel laureates Richard Axel, MD and Eric Kandel, MD, we study critical aspects of the mind and brain, gaining insights that promise to benefit people and societies everywhere. Our Science: We explore how the brain develops, performs, endures and recovers. Computation Can math explain the brain? Disease What are the causes of sickness? Decision Making How do you make a choice? Evolution What makes your brain special? Growth & Development How does your brain mature? Learning & Memory How do you store and recall information? Movement How do you control your body? The Senses How do you perceive your surroundings? Tools & Technology How does innovation push the boundaries of knowledge? Elizabeth Hillman, PhD People Transforming How We Image the Brain Bringing her engineering and physics expertise to neuroscience, Professor Elizabeth Hillman, PhD, has developed a wide range of multi-scale in-vivo imaging methods including SCAPE microscopy for high-speed 3D imaging of neural activity. Scientific Platforms: The tools, facilities and people that make our research possible. Advanced Instrumentation Inventing one-of-a-kind tools that spur new scientific experiments Cellular Imaging Developing new imaging technologies to illuminate the secret lives of cells Custom Genetic Access Services Game-changing tools for investigating brain cell activity Flow Cytometry Deciphering the brain, one cell at a time Magnetic Resonance Imaging Scanning the brain and body in health and sickness Research Computing Providing robust computation and data storage solutions for labs Virology Building molecular tools to map and explore the nervous system ZUCKERMAN INSTITUTE IN THE NEWS Some Songbirds Have Brains Specially Designed to Find Mates for Life New study shows that taste, like all reality, is but a fragile illusion The Human Remembering Machine View All News > The Science Life An illustrated series exploring the lived experiences of people at a brain science institute. Connect with us Our Mission At Columbia's Zuckerman Institute, our mission is to decipher the brain. From effective treatments for disorders like Alzheimer’s and autism to advances in fields as fundamental as economics, the arts and law, the potential for humanity is staggering. Jerome L. Greene Science Center (Credit: Frank Oudeman/Columbia University). Stefano Fusi, PhD People Cracking the Brain’s Code  Professor Stefano Fusi, PhD, wants to design technology inspired by the human brain. As a step toward this goal, he is using math to better understand how the brain itself computes information, especially as related to problem solving, reasoning and decision-making. Dr. Fusi’s work could lead to technological advances that have thus far remained beyond our reach. Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates Discover the power of your support. Seed the discoveries that make a difference. Donate footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Branches of a neuron in the cortex of a living rat. (Credit: Bruno lab/ Columbia's Zuckerman Institute)