Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Evolution News Mental Landscapes: Introducing the Betta Fish Genetic origins of their splendid colors and wavy shapes revealed March 9, 2022 Share This: Betta fish have been bred to come in many colors and shapes. (Credit: Bendesky lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute) FEATURED RESEARCHER Andrés Bendesky, MD, PhD Contact Media Inquiries [email protected] Betta splendens had a long history before becoming a pet store staple. Native to the streams and rice paddies of Southeast Asia, this aggressive fish was bred by people, such as the King of Thailand, to fight for sport. Domestication of these fish started at least four hundred years ago — much earlier than previously thought — scientists recently discovered. By comparing the genomes of wild and domestic bettas, Andrés Bendesky, MD, PhD, and a team of researchers also uncovered genes that breeding has changed over time. One gene has a small effect in determining the sex of wild betta but became a strong sex-determining gene in domestic bettas. Others contribute to the range of colors and shapes that make domestic bettas more flamboyant than their wild cousins. Read more about this new research published today in Science Advances, and how it lays the groundwork for exploring the genetic origins of aggression, in the New York Times, The Atlantic and The Scientist. Columbia Study Suggests Possible Common Thread Between Many Neurodegenerative Diseases Meet Alexis Kim Connect with us RELATED NEWS Evolution How Genes Shape Behavior April 4, 2018 Evolution The 1,000-Year Secret That Made Betta Fish Beautiful May 14, 2021 Meet Kerel Francis October 13, 2021 View All News > footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University These neurons help to distinguish safety from danger (Siegelbaum Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute).