Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Science Learning & Memory Learning & Memory Pinpointing How Cells Regulate Long-lasting Memories From the lab of Eric R. Kandel, MD, Columbia's Zuckerman Institute CPEB3 (green) localizing to a neuron's dendrites after stimulation (Credit: Lenzie Ford and Luana Fioriti/Kandel lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute). We are our memories. From mental snapshots of childhood birthdays to knowledge about how to ride a bike, our memories connect the past to the present and give our lives continuity. Without the ability to store and recall information, we would be adrift in time, unable to learn from the past or plan for the future. Despite the fundamental importance of memory, scientists have only just begun to understand how it works. Why do we remember some things but forget others? How do different parts of the brain work together to store different kinds of memories? How do we use this information to learn, and how do our brains motivate us to learn? Why does the ability to remember decline with age or disease? In search of answers to these questions, researchers at Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute study everything from the molecules that help us form memories to what is happening in the brains of teenagers while they learn to play video games. We use mathematics borrowed from physics to investigate the brain’s storage capacity and measure the electrical chatter of cells to explore the importance of paying attention for learning. What our scientists uncover could help all of us to better understand ourselves, while providing a foundation for efforts to improve education and treat diseases ranging from Alzheimer’s to schizophrenia. Explore Learning and Memory An Unexpected Place for Learning, Memory in the Brain Read more> Unlocking the Memories Inside Our Minds Read more> How the Brain Distinguishes Friend from Foe Read more> Meet the Scientists Working in Learning & Memory Larry F. Abbott, PhD Dmitriy Aronov, PhD Richard Axel, MD Rui Costa, DVM, PhD Vincent P. Ferrera, PhD Stefano Fusi, PhD Vikram Gadagkar, PhD Michael E. Goldberg, MD Jacqueline Gottlieb, PhD Elias B. Issa, PhD Eric R. Kandel, MD Nikolaus Kriegeskorte, PhD Ashok Litwin-Kumar, PhD Attila Losonczy, MD, PhD Bianca Jones Marlin, PhD Daniel Salzman, MD, PhD Steven A. Siegelbaum, PhD Michael N. Shadlen, MD, PhD Daphna Shohamy, PhD Sarah M.N. Woolley, PhD Learning & Memory In the News Teen Brains are Primed for Learning From Life October 5, 2016 Memories of Favourite Locations Have a Special Place in the Brain July 7, 2016 The Human Remembering Machine October 2, 2016 View All News > Videos Featuring Learning & Memory Teenage Brains: Wired to Learn As millions of teens head back to the classroom, discover what the latest research into the adolescent brain reveals about how teens learn and interact with their environment. What Songbirds Can Teach Us About the Brain A Conversation With Eric Kandel A Major Cause of Age Related Memory Loss Identified Newborn Brain Cells are Required for Memory Learning from experience: How our brains remember the past and shape our future What the Film Inside Out Can Teach Us About the Brain, the Mind and Ourselves | Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates Discover the power of your support. Seed the discoveries that make a difference. Donate footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Neuron with thousands of protrusions, called spines (Credit: Polleux Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute).