Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Engage Science and community engage with each other at Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute. We are delighted to call Manhattanville home and eager to share with our neighbors the challenge and excitement of learning how our minds and brains work. Students learn about the wonders of the brain at the 2016 Community Brain Expo (Credit: Michael DiVito/Columbia University). Explore Science with Us — Virtually! Our Education Lab is usually open year-round with a variety of hands-on brain science programs. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have suspended many on-site programs and events and are developing exciting new virtual programming. See below for our active programming and upcoming events. We have also been collecting resources to support remote teaching and learning! If you are a student, parent or teacher, please check out the resources below. If you think we can help to provide something you need for your virtual STEM teaching or learning during this time, please let us know! Explore our active public programs Art in the Education Lab While the Education Lab remains closed due to COVID-19, come by and view DISTER RONDON’s mural IN SCIENCE WE TRUST, visible in the windows on 129th Street. BioBus Providing more than 30,000 students with a hands-on introduction to science each year BRAINYAC Connecting high school students with scientists for intensive summer lab internships BioLinks Virtual Journal Club Building an interest in biological research through scientific literature Breakout Science Partnering with our local community to develop interdisciplinary events for adults Stavros Niarchos Foundation Teacher-Scholar Program Professional development for teachers in New York City Know Science Promoting knowledge of science through informal talks for adults BrainSTEM Resources Bringing neuroscience to the classroom BrainSTEM in Action Chancellor’s Day Professional Development Columbia University Neuroscience Outreach Connecting Columbia students and scientists to the community Saturday Science Nurturing a love of science at a monthly event for families and community groups Stavros Niarchos Foundation Brain Insight Lectures Bringing brain science to the public STEM Starters Weekend science workshops for middle and high school students featured events View all events> Online Resources From Our Partners BioBus Town Halls, weekly challenges and other virtual opportunities. Know Science Mental health resources. New York Public Library Storytime The Studio Museum in Harlem Online resources including coloring pages, DIYs and lesson plans. The Dance Theatre of Harlem Online classes. Arts and Minds Free virtual programming. Virtual Learning Tools for Kids and Families BioBus Town Halls and Weekly Challenges Skype a Scientist Families can get a virtual visit from a real scientist directly into your living room. Youth Remote Learning A suite of free learning resources for all levels, K-12. Sign up two days in advance. RockEdu: “What is a virus anyway?” An educational resource about viruses, with hands-on activities. Stuck at Home Science Activities that can be done with easy-to-find home supplies. A new activity every weekday English and Spanish. All ages. Science Buddies STEM activities for kids These activities use easy-to-find materials and can be done in an hour or less. All ages. Science Suitcase Science projects that can be done at home with easy-to-find materials. Middle school. Killer Snails Free STEM games where players roleplay as scientists. All ages. CrashCourse YouTube Channel Videos are organized into Learning playlists that are designed more like formal courses (for example, the Psychology playlist is based on the 2013 AP Psychology curriculum). Appropriate for middle school through adult learners. CrashCourse Kids Videos span all areas of science and are much shorter snippets, usually animated. Suitable for elementary age kids. Frontiers for Young Minds Kids edit research articles by scientists of all fields for other kids to read. Open access articles. For middle and high school students. Science Friday Weekly short conversations with different scientists about their current research across all topics of science. Remote Ed with Melody Weekly science classes for kindergarteners or very young kids. The Columbia University Center for Science and Society List of virtual programming from science centers and museums. virtual tools: coding Girls Who Code at Home Weekly activities featuring the stories of women in STEM. All ages and levels. Code Combat Coding games. All ages and levels. Launch Code All levels and ages (adults, too). Virtual tools: neuroscience Neuro Transmissions Videos that explain the neuroscience behind different problems in everyday life with a personal, conversational tone. Neuroscientifically Challenged Two-minute videos with educational content. The Psych Show Mental health show from clinical psychologist and previous Columbia Professor Ali Mattu. Suitable for older students and adults. Virtual learning resources for teachers BioBus Town Halls and Weekly Challenges Teachers can join the town halls with their students and ask questions about the topic. Skype a Scientist Teachers can choose the type of scientist that will fit their classroom for a virtual visit and Q&A session. American Museum of Natural History Biodiversity Library BioRad Classroom resources. CrashCourse YouTube Channel Videos are organized into learning playlists that are designed more like formal courses (e.g. the Psychology playlist is based on the 2013 AP Psychology curriculum). Appropriate for middle school-high school students. Computer science learning resources from Indiana University A list of resources from Indiana Department of Education. Khan Academy Teachers can create a free account and assign students individual units or a complete course. HHMI Biointeractive Lessons, resources and workshops for STEM teachers. Nobel Prize Education Network Includes educational games. Resources to understand COVID-19 RockEDU’s COVID-19 Q&A For kids. BioBus’ student Town Hall on COVID-19 For kids. How to keep COVID away For kids. CDC COVID resources and guidance For adults. COVID primer For adults; in several languages. Ciencia Puerto Rico Resources for English and Spanish speakers. For adults. Flatten the Curve Information and practical guidance on how to slow the spread of COVID-19. For adults. On-site Programming Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, our on-site programming is currently suspended. Learn More Community Wellness Center Learn More Connect with us Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates Discover the power of your support. Seed the discoveries that make a difference. Donate footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Sensory neurons in a fruit fly (Grueber Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute).