Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Credit: Don Hamerman People Richard Axel, MD University Professor and Nobel Laureate; Professor of Pathology and Biochemistry; Codirector of Columbia's Zuckerman Institute; Investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute The Senses Learning & Memory Contact 212-853-1006 [email protected] Go to Lab Website Codirector Richard Axel won a Nobel Prize in 2004 for his groundbreaking work in decoding olfaction, our sense of smell. Specifically, Dr. Axel identified more than 1,000 special receptors in the nose that transmit olfactory information to the brain. Read more about Richard Axel, MD > Appointments at Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Professor of Neuroscience Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Professor of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Professor of Pathology and Cellular Biology The Kavli Institute for Brain Science Member Grossman Center for the Statistics of Mind Advisory Board Doctoral Program in Neurobiology and Behavior Training Faculty Motor Neuron Center Member related news The Senses How the Brain Perceives Landmarks October 27, 2021 The Senses Sex Pheromone Named for Jane Austen Character Alters Brain in Mouse Courtship January 29, 2020 The Senses How Two Brains Agree on Smells May 1, 2018 View All News > About Richard Axel Richard Axel is a Nobel laureate, a University Professor, an investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Columbia University Medical Center and a codirector of Columbia’s Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute. Dr. Axel obtained an AB from Columbia College and an MD from Johns Hopkins Medical School. In earlier studies, Dr. Axel and his colleagues, Michael Wigler and Saul Silverstein, developed gene transfer techniques that permit the introduction of virtually any gene into any cell. These studies not only allowed for a novel approach to isolate genes but also provided a detailed analysis of how they worked. At the same time, these experiments allowed for the production of an increasingly large number of clinically important proteins. These studies also led to the isolation and functional analysis of a gene for the lymphocyte surface protein, CD4, the cellular receptor for the AIDS virus, HIV. Dr. Axel then began to apply molecular biology to problems in neuroscience with the expectation that genetics could interface with neuroscience to approach the tenuous relationship between genes, behavior and perception. His studies on the logic of the sense of smell revealed over a thousand genes involved in the recognition of odors and provided insight into how genes shape our perception of the sensory environment; this research earned him the 2004 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. Dr. Axel’s current work centers on how the recognition of odors is translated into an internal representation of sensory quality in the brain and how this representation leads to meaningful thoughts and behavior. Read More + AWARDS AND AFFILIATIONS Nobel Foundation Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine (2004) Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator (1984–Present) The Royal Society Foreign Member (2014) Gairdner Foundation International Award (2003) American Philosophical Society Member (2003) National Academy of Sciences Member (1983), Richard Lounsbery Award (1989) American Association for the Advancement of Science Fellow (2018) American Academy of Arts and Sciences Fellow Selected Publications Representations of Novelty and Familiarity in a Mushroom Body Compartment. Hattori D, Aso Y, Swartz KJ, Rubin GM, Abbott LF, Axel R Cell.2017 May 18 The participation of cortical amygdala in innate, odour-driven behaviour. Root CM, Denny CA, Hen R, Axel R Nature.2014 Nov 13 Random convergence of olfactory inputs in the Drosophila mushroom body. Caron SJ, Ruta V, Abbott LF, Axel R Nature.2013 May 2 Driving opposing behaviors with ensembles of piriform neurons. Choi GB, Stettler DD, Kallman BR, Bhaskar ST, Fleischmann A, Axel R Cell.2011 Sep 16 Representations of odor in the piriform cortex. Stettler DD, Axel R Neuron.2009 Sep 24 Read More at Videos Featuring Richard Axel Scents and Sensibility: Representations of the Olfactory World in the Brain | footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University 3D image of a living brain created by SCAPE technique (Credit: Hillman Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute)