Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Science Tools & Technology The Senses High-Speed, 3D Microscope Captures Nerve Cells in Action Proprioceptive neurons are visible in a freely moving fruit fly larva (Credit: Wenze Li and Rebecca Vaadia/Hillman and Grueber labs/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute). Advances in understanding the mind often begin with new technologies for investigating the brain. From the 19th-century microscopes that revealed the building block of the brain, the nerve cell, to modern imaging techniques that measure neural activity, new tools can show us not only the anatomy of the nervous system, but how it functions. To push the limits of today’s tools and technologies, our researchers build bridges across disciplines. How can engineers and scientists work together to build new devices that allow for new kinds of experiments that shed light on how our brains grow or perform computations? How can physics spur new approaches to imaging the brain’s interior? What can mathematics teach us about dealing with big data? At Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute, our researchers have developed new ways to visualize the brain in 3D and designed molecular tools for mapping the nervous system. Technological advances lie at the heart of understanding everything from consciousness to sensory perception — and have already begun to reveal clues about how we move our bodies and the underlying causes of diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, or Lou Gehrig's disease). Explore Tools & Technology Building the Tools to Reveal the Invisible Read more> Brain-Controlled Hearing Aid Automatically Identifies Who You Want to Hear Read more> Pushing the Boundaries of High-Resolution Imaging Read more> Meet the Researchers Working in Tools & Technology Richard Axel, MD Mark M. Churchland, PhD Rui Costa, DVM, PhD John P. Cunningham, PhD Yasmine El-Shamayleh, PhD Anthony W.P. Fitzpatrick, PhD Stefano Fusi, PhD Elizabeth Hillman, PhD Nikolaus Kriegeskorte, PhD Attila Losonczy, MD, PhD Richard S. Mann, PhD Nima Mesgarani, PhD Liam Paninski, PhD Darcy S. Peterka, PhD Franck Polleux, PhD Tanya Tabachnik John Thomas Vaughan, PhD Tools & Technology in the News Researchers Use Modified Rabies Viruses to Map the Brain January 21, 2016 Watch a Resting Brain Light Up With Activity December 12, 2016 The Mysteries of How Newborn Cells May Help Form Memories February 29, 2016 View All News > Videos Featuring Tools & Technology A Brain Scientist and Volcanologist Investigate Why Some Volcanoes Turn Explosive Imaging the Living Brain Elizabeth Hillman leads a team that is developing new imaging methods for the living brain. Their goal is to understand the way that the brain functions and regulates its blood flow, which can provide important clues to understanding early brain development, disease and aging. Flywalker Developed by Richard Mann, Flywalker is a combination apparatus and software program that pays close attention to an insect’s steps. The insect strolls over a piece of glass in the device. At the same time, light beamed into the glass bends — much in the same way that light shimmers in a swimming pool — resulting in bursts of light where the fly touches the glass. A video camera captures those bursts and then feeds them into software that reconstructs the fly’s movements, step by step. The Restless Brain: New Study Uncovers Vivid Patterns of Neural Activity in the Resting Mouse Brain Columbia scientists have traced the origins of mysterious signals in the brain that have captivated the functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) community for the last decade. Using a recently developed imaging technique in mice, the Columbia team revealed synchronized, network-like neural activity coursing around the brain, even when the mouse was ‘at rest.’ | Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates Discover the power of your support. Seed the discoveries that make a difference. Donate Our Scientific Platforms Advanced Instrumentation Inventing one-of-a-kind tools that spur new scientific experiments Cellular Imaging Developing new imaging technologies to illuminate the secret lives of cells Flow Cytometry Deciphering the brain, one cell at a time Magnetic Resonance Imaging Scanning the brain and body in health and sickness Research Computing Providing robust computation and data storage solutions for labs Virology Building molecular tools to map and explore the nervous system footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Neuron with thousands of protrusions, called spines (Credit: Polleux Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute).