Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Magnetic Resonance Imaging Scanning the brain and body in health and sickness A state-of-the-art MR machine can image the living brains of humans and other animals (Credit: Tommy Vaughan/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute). Scanners that create magnet fields have become an essential tool for peering inside the head noninvasively. Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute houses three such devices, each the gold standard for the field, that promise to reveal new details about the anatomy, chemistry and electrical activity of the brain — in health and sickness. Our Magnetic Resonance Imaging team — composed of engineers, physicists and systems operators — supports the use of these machines in studies of humans and other animals. We work with researchers at the Institute and across Columbia to design and implement new experiments and assist with the analysis and interpretation of resulting data. Our team ensures that our work meets regulatory requirements and can provide support for grant applications and manuscript preparations. The studies we conduct could shed light on questions ranging from what the causes of brain disease are to why different people react to art in different ways. NEWS ABOUT MR IMAGING May 1, 2017 Tommy Vaughan Pushes Boundaries of High-Resolution Imaging View All News > Videos featuring Magnetic Resonance Imaging The Columbia MR Research Center At Columbia’s MR Research Center, scientists from across the University are coming together to push the boundaries of imaging the brain and the body. This video introduces professor Tommy Vaughan, the mind behind the Center, and the cadre of researchers using this technology to tackle a wide range of challenges: from understanding how fat builds up in the body to revealing the origins of our emotions and behaviors. | Contact Kathleen Durkin Magnetic Resonance Research Administrator [email protected] 212-853-1351 John T. Vaughan, PhD Director of Magnetic Resonance Imaging [email protected] 212-851-9553 Columbia MR Research Center Learn More Related Scientific Platforms Advanced Instrumentation Inventing one-of-a-kind tools that spur new scientific experiments Cellular Imaging Developing new imaging technologies to illuminate the secret lives of cells Custom Genetic Access Services Game-changing tools for investigating brain cell activity Flow Cytometry Deciphering the brain, one cell at a time Research Computing Providing robust computation and data storage solutions for labs Virology Building molecular tools to map and explore the nervous system footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University These neurons help to distinguish safety from danger (Siegelbaum Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute).