Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Discover the power of your support. Seed the discoveries that make a difference. Donate Anita Burgos (above), a graduate student in the Grueber Lab (Credit: John Abbott). Dawn M. Greene Mortimer B. Zuckerman Join our foundation of support. Columbia's Zuckerman Institute and the Jerome L. Greene Science Center were made possible with transformational gifts from Dawn M. Greene and the Jerome L. Greene Foundation and by Mortimer B. Zuckerman. With your partnership, our potential is boundless. At the Zuckerman Institute, no endeavor is more urgent or more likely to benefit humankind than understanding how we think, act and behave. But addressing this global challenge depends on the generosity of those who support our research. As we make progress in deciphering the human brain—how it develops, works, endures and recovers—we can apply these fundamental insights toward combating psychiatric, developmental and neurological disorders. Please join us in this pioneering endeavor by becoming a Friend of the Zuckerman Institute. Your gift to the Friends of the Zuckerman Institute Fund will: Create opportunities for young scientists who drive discoveries in the brain sciences—supporting talented early-stage researchers as they embark upon their careers. Make possible the novel technologies needed to decipher the brain processes that underlie behavior—both in the normal and diseased brain. Enable the recruitment of world-renowned scientists to work alongside some of the most creative minds in science, including Nobel and Kavli-prize winning scientists, who are committed to finding answers to the immense problems of brain and mind. Encourage new approaches to brain science and its intersection with art, music, economics and law, by supporting innovative programs that lend insight into our behavior. To close the gap between our genetic and molecular understanding of the brain and what the social sciences, humanities, and professional disciplines tell us about behavior, we are creating a place for scholarship where a spirit of common inquiry yields extraordinary discoveries. Lee C. Bollinger Columbia University President Contact Development Office 615 West 131st Street, 6th Floor, New York, NY, 10027 [email protected] 212-851-9662 Connect with us Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates Discover the power of your support. Seed the discoveries that make a difference. Donate footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University 3D image of a living brain created by SCAPE technique (Credit: Hillman Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute)