Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Science Computation Computation How the Brain Makes New Memories While Preserving the Old From the lab of Stefano Fusi, PhD, Columbia's Zuckerman Institute Connected tubs of liquid, representing the components of brain-cell connections that make memories (Credit: Fusi Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute). Your brain processes an astounding amount of information at each moment. No computer on the market can rival its ability to compute. But understanding this extraordinary brainpower may require concepts borrowed from computer science, as well as math, engineering and physics. The computational neuroscientists at Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute study the math that makes the brain tick. How are the billions of neurons that make up the brain similar to the microprocessors that make up a computer — and how are they different? What is the computational power of our brain? How does it allow the brain to interpret the outside world and use the information it receives to send messages to the body? To answer these questions and more, our researchers create models that reveal hidden patterns in brain activity. We develop new tools that analyze enormous amounts of data, and new ways of visualizing that analysis. Our computational work touches on and supports every topic studied at the Institute, from decision making to disease. It could inspire new advances in fields like economics, and even lead to new kinds of computers inspired by the elegant workings of the brain. Explore Computation Columbia-led Team Receives $16.75M from the BRAIN Initiative Read more> Building the Tools to Reveal the Invisible Read more> The Human Brain Recalls Visual Features in Reverse Order Than It Detects Them Read more> Meet the Scientists Working in Computation Larry F. Abbott, PhD Mark M. Churchland, PhD Rui Costa, DVM, PhD John P. Cunningham, PhD Stefano Fusi, PhD Vikram Gadagkar, PhD Barry Honig, PhD Elias B. Issa, PhD Nikolaus Kriegeskorte, PhD Ashok Litwin-Kumar, PhD Nima Mesgarani, PhD Kenneth D. Miller, PhD Liam Paninski, PhD Michael N. Shadlen, MD, PhD Daniel M. Wolpert, PhD Computation in the News Your Memory is Not Like a Computer's November 21, 2016 The Human Remembering Machine October 2, 2016 Will You Ever Be Able to Upload Your Brain? October 10, 2016 View All News > Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates Discover the power of your support. Seed the discoveries that make a difference. Donate footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Neuron with thousands of protrusions, called spines (Credit: Polleux Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute).