Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe Science Movement Movement Why Do We Freeze When Startled? New Study in Flies Points to Serotonin From the lab of Richard S. Mann, PhD, Columbia's Zuckerman Institute Videos of flies (5x speed) using FlyWalker, a program that enables scientists to label and track the position of each of the fly’s footfalls, thereby building a high-resolution picture of it’s walking gait. Top: normal fly walking at around 25 mm/s. Bottom: fly with its VNC serotonin neurons stimulated, which slows its speed to 15 mm/s (Credit: Clare Howard/Mann lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute) Life moves to survive. Consider the fish that escapes a predator by swishing its tail, or the bird who communicates with its young by vibrating her vocal cords. Movement is how living creatures interact with their environments and each other. At Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute, we explore how the nervous system gives us the power to move every one of our parts. How do some nerves help our eyes to smoothly swivel and track an object zipping through the air? How do other nerves guide our hands to deftly reach out and grab that object? And how do our brains plan our actions before we even begin them? Our researchers create molecular tools that illuminate nerve cells in the spinal cord that are critical for movement, and mathematical tools that detect brain-activity patterns important for coordinating muscles. What we are discovering could help athletes and dancers – and all of us – to better understand how our brains control our bodies. This fundamental research could one day inform efforts to treat impairments of movement caused by physical injuries or diseases such as Parkinson’s. Explore Movement How Does Rafael Nadal Keep His Eye on the Ball? The Neuroscience of Vision Read more> The Brain Science of Figure Skating: How Practice Makes Perfect Read more> Inside the Mind of an Athlete: How Michael Phelps Finds His Rhythm Read more> Movement Research at the Zuckerman Institute Brain Initiative Team-Research Circuit Program (U19): Motor Control Uncovering Computational and Circuit Mechanisms Underlying Motor Control Meet the Scientists Working in Movement Mark M. Churchland, PhD Rui Costa, DVM, PhD Vincent P. Ferrera, PhD Vikram Gadagkar, PhD Michael E. Goldberg, MD Tom Maniatis, PhD Richard S. Mann, PhD Ning Qian, PhD Nathaniel Sawtell, PhD Lawrence S. Shapiro, PhD Daniel M. Wolpert, PhD Movement In the News Figure skaters have to train themselves to ignore their natural reflexes February 15, 2018 Why One Neuroscientist Started Blasting His Core August 24, 2016 Every Time Michael Phelps Takes a Stroke, This is What Happens in His Brain August 12, 2016 View All News > Videos About Movement The Brain Science of Baseball Baseball players today make home runs look easy. But hitting the ball with a bat just right is an amazingly difficult thing to do. At Columbia's Zuckerman Institute, neuroscientist Daniel Wolpert, PhD, is uncovering the connections between body and brain that make such physical feats possible The Brain Science of Figure Skating In celebration of the 2018 Winter Olympics, Silver Medalist Paul Wylie joins Drs. Rui Costa and Nathaniel Sawtell, neuroscientists at Columbia's Zuckerman Institute, on a journey inside the minds of some of the world's most elite athletes. Flywalker Developed by Richard Mann and Columbia Physics Professor Szabolcs Marka, Flywalker is a combination apparatus and software program that pays close attention to an insect’s steps. The insect strolls over a piece of glass in the device. At the same time, light beamed into the glass bends — much in the same way that light shimmers in a swimming pool — resulting in bursts of light where the fly touches the glass. A video camera captures those bursts and then feeds them into software that reconstructs the fly’s movements, step by step. | Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates Discover the power of your support. Seed the discoveries that make a difference. Donate footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Interneurons illuminated in different colors in a mouse spine (Columbia's Zuckerman Institute)