Columbia University in the City of New York Asset 1 Mind. Brain. Behavior. menu close Science People Programs Engage Events News About Support Search Search close Discover new insights when you open your inbox Subscribe News News Pioneering Neuroscientist Eric Kandel to Retire News from all dates201720182019202020212022 about everythingComputationDecision MakingDiseaseEvolutionGrowth & DevelopmentLearning & MemoryMovementThe SensesTools & Technology Filter News June 1, 2022 Pioneering Neuroscientist Eric Kandel to Retire Statement by Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute News June 1, 2022 Meet Eric Kandel Follow one Nobel laureate’s journey into the science of mind. Meet Eric Kandel, MD, a co-director of Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute. News May 4, 2022 Meet Arnav Raha How does a multilingual Indian family shape a scientist's interests? Meet Arnav Raha, Lab Manager in the Gadakar Lab. Decision Making April 28, 2022 A Study of Pandemic’s Early Days Reveals that Hunger for Specific Information Opens Minds By examining connections between information-seeking, learning and motivation, new study offers pointers for public-education campaigns and classrooms. News April 27, 2022 Meet Dana Crawford How did science become a safe space for a girl kicked out of class for asking too many questions? Meet Dana Crawford, PhD, Scholar-in-Residence at the Zuckerman Institute. News April 13, 2022 Meet Connor Gibbons How is an expert in aquariums helping cuttlefish to feel at home in the lab? Meet Connor Gibbons, Cephalopods Facility Manager in the Axel Lab. Tools & Technology April 11, 2022 Researchers Undertake Challenge to Image Every Cell in the Human Brain at Unprecedented Speed Columbia-led team wins $9.1 million research grant to create fundamentally new maps that will chart cell diversity throughout the brains of humans. News April 6, 2022 Meet Katie Insel What is a neuroscientist who studies adolescents teaching the legal system? Meet Katie Insel, PhD, a postdoctoral research scientist in the Shohamy Lab. News March 30, 2022 Meet Amy Vo Why does a research technician’s work to repurpose drugs remind her of her grandmother? Meet Amy Vo, research technician in the Mason-Dodd lab. News March 23, 2022 Meet Eugenie Peze-Heidsieck How does neuroscience prepare you to go to space? Meet Eugenie Peze-Heidsieck, PhD, a postdoctoral researcher in the Polleux Lab in the running to become an astronaut. 1 2 3 ... 25 Zuckerman Institute In the News Click Here Discover new insights when you open your inbox. Get thought provoking updates on neuroscience, as well as news about upcoming events and activities at the Institute. Subscribe Follow us for updates footer-logo The Future in Mind Science People Programs Engage Events News About Press Room Contact Us Work with Us Internal Website Support ©2019 The Zuckerman Institute, Columbia University Neuron with thousands of protrusions, called spines (Credit: Polleux Lab/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute).